Nay, speak thy mind; and let him ne'er speak more
QUEEN ELIZABETH:
Speak to his gentle hearing kind commends.
Or hailstone in the sun. Your virtue is
'Clarence is come; false, fleeting, perjured Clarence,
As my ripe revenue and due by birth
So stumblest on my counsel?
service, look you, sir, he bid me knock him and rap
Than an unstringed viol or a harp,
Freed and enfranchised, not a party to
On: those that think it is unlawful business
Or in his emmence that fills it up,
Then, God be bless'd, it is the blessed sun:
To do myself this wrong: till, at the last,
I had a Rutland too, thou holp'st to kill him.
will give you as much as this old man does when the
Call home thy ancient thoughts from banishment
KATHARINA:
You cloudy princes and heart-sorrowing peers,
'Come on, you cowards! you were got in fear,
O, sir, you must: and therefore I beseech you
Call him a slanderous coward and a villain:
DUKE VINCENTIO:
whom Cominius the general is gone, with one part of
KING LEWIS XI:
But I bethink me what a weary way
That not a tear can fall for Rutland's death?
By vain though apt affection.
As much for my poor brother as myself:
And have you nuns no farther privileges?
Which he has put upon't!
First Citizen:
She will not come: she bids you come to her.
It doth remember me the more of sorrow;
He dies to-night.
QUEEN ELIZABETH:
It is the law, not I condemn your brother:
I kneel and then implore her blessing. Lady,
That take it on you at the first so roundly.
Gremio, 'tis known my father hath no less
You must lay down the treasures of your body
Alas, that love, so gentle in his view,
I pray thee, mark me.
And all eyes else dead coals! Fear thou no wife;
To Valentinus, Rowland, and to Crassus,
And stand upon my common part with those
Here must I stay, and here my life must end.
See you the fornicatress be removed:
By lack of stooping,--
Of you, my noble cousin, Lord Aumerle;
When holy and devout religious men
My manors, rents, revenues I forego;
But heaven keeps his part in eternal life.
Good even. Friar, where's the provost?
DUKE OF YORK:
Oh, that deceit should steal such gentle shapes,
Braved in mine own house with a skein of thread?
in all reason should have quenched her love, hath,
And I the rather wean me from despair
Fellow, why dost thou show me thus to the world?
And yet runn'st toward him still. Thou art not noble;
But O, thy wife!
Why, shall the people give
PETRUCHIO:
KING RICHARD III:
Where is the Earl of Wiltshire? where is Bagot?
My words are dull; O, quicken them with thine!
DUKE OF YORK:
But sadly tell me who.
No sneaping winds at home, to make us say
That he will not be won to aught against him.
Where thou shalt live, till we can find a time
Your son shall have my daughter with consent.
Let AEsop fable in a winter's night;
I will despair, and be at enmity
Only make trial what your love can do
CORIOLANUS:
Farewell! God knows when we shall meet again.
And lead thy daughter to a conqueror's bed;
The man I speak of cannot in the world
Never hung poison on a fouler toad.
Whilst that my wretchedness doth bait myself,
Yet would you say ye were beaten out of door;
I would he knew that I had saved his brother!
He had so; looking as it were--would I were hanged,
Advantaging their loan with interest
Weeping again the king my father's wreck,
For though mine enemy thou hast ever been,
Happy, indeed, as we have spent the day.
Being well arrived from Delphos, are both landed,
With gentle breath, calm look, knees humbly bow'd,
Come, come, peace.
Snakes, in my heart-blood warm'd, that sting my heart!
Manifest treason!
God-den to you all, god-den to you all.
A hundred, if they'll do you any good.
First Lady:
Masters, lay down your weapons.
Which not to cut would show thee but a fool,
And do as adversaries do in law,
To grim Necessity, and he and I
KATHARINA:
What studied torments, tyrant, hast for me?
hadst been poor John. Draw thy tool! here comes
into some monastery; but, by chance, nothing of what
Mine ear hath tempted judgment to desire.
Let every feeble rumour shake your hearts!
necessary for a cut-purse; a good nose is requisite
Ghost of RIVERS:
Why, then they are not dead:
Then give me leave to go.
The patroness of heavenly harmony:
When I should mount with wings of victory:
KATHARINA:
And pass'd him unelected.
Deliver them this paper: having read it,
Than when I first my wedded mistress saw
PETRUCHIO:
Call him my king by whose injurious doom
Now the good gods forbid
And not King Richard; thou most beauteous inn,
Are now to have no successive degrees,
A brace of draymen bid God speed him well
Be patient, gentle queen, and I will stay.
A flourish, trumpets! strike alarum, drums!
The very virtue of compassion in thee,
I will tell the king all, every word, yea, and his
Hath not yet dived into the world's deceit
And he, that suffer's. O, it is excellent
Oxford, Oxford, for Lancaster!
And so, God give you quiet rest to-night!
What are you?
Drums in his ear, at which he starts and wakes,
And straight am nothing: but whate'er I be,
BUCKINGHAM:
And for your grace; and you, my noble lords.
Of good old Abraham! Lords appellants,
And I, my lord, will bear him company.
I have an interest in your hate's proceeding,
more and leave this young man in pawn till I bring it you.
My country's good with a respect more tender,
thought she was a woman and was turned into a cold
villanous speeches of the duke.
Charge him too coldly. Tell him, you are sure
Now join your hands, and with your hands your hearts,
CORIOLANUS:
I wonder at this haste; that I must wed
Your lecture shall have leisure for as much.
Third Roman:
I know she is come to pray for your foul sin.
Strong as a tower in hope, I cry amen.
ways, wench; serve God. What, have you dined at home?
'Small herbs have grace, great weeds do grow apace:'
My eye's too quick, my heart o'erweens too much,
Infused with a fortitude from heaven,
Was never mother had so dear a loss!
Glad that you thus continue your resolve
Affection's edge in me, were she as rough
Plays fondly with her tears and smiles in meeting,
Set on towards London, cousin, is it so?
That runaway's eyes may wink and Romeo
Who set this ancient quarrel new abroach?
The pleasant garden of great Italy;
Why are our bodies soft and weak and smooth,
The dangerous and unsuspected Hastings.
To house or housekeeping: then, at my farm
What title hast thou, traitor, to the crown?
Make us pay down for our offence by weight
I must begin with rudiments of art;
As little joy may you suppose in me.
I swear I will not die to-day for any man's
hunt this weather? They have scared away two of my
I will be brief, for my short date of breath
Call forth Nathaniel, Joseph, Nicholas, Philip,
Madam, and you, my mother, will you go
You are old enough now, and yet, methinks, you lose.
PETRUCHIO:
Let me have open means to come to them,
Some honest Christian trust me with a gage
But Romeo may not; he is banished:
And with full line of his authority,
There's time enough for that;
I thank thee for that gird, good Tranio.
I'll keep mine own, despite of all the world.
Here comes a man; let's stay till he be past.
A marvellous poor one.
I will be master of what is mine own:
Those are pearls that were his eyes:
Of what it is not. Then, thrice-gracious queen,
How fares my Juliet? that I ask again;
I will not do't.
Now I come to't my lord
truth enough alive to make societies secure; but
Since pride must have a fall, and break the neck
A little gale will soon disperse that cloud
Pray you, who does the wolf love?
What tongueless blocks were they! would not they speak?
That you shall be my wife; your dowry 'greed on;
First Servingman:
Till I be brought to such a silly pass!
A foe to the public weal: obey, I charge thee,
Didst perceive it?
And, if we meet, we shall not scape a brawl;
Broach'd with the steely point of Clifford's lance;
Trembled and shook; for why, he stamp'd and swore,
Within the guilty closure of thy walls
I will be mild and gentle in my speech.
Sir, I shall tell you. With a kind of smile,
See him pluck Aufidius down by the hair,
Why then, the beef, and let the mustard rest.
You said so much before, and yet you fled.
Gentleman:
God knows, in anguish, pain and agony.
She is too fair, too wise, wisely too fair,
DUKE VINCENTIO:
though I must be content to bear with those that say
That this lives in thy mind? What seest thou else
O no, my reasons are too deep and dead;
Is now dishonoured by this new marriage.
Lift up your countenance, as it were the day
The purest treasure mortal times afford
KING RICHARD II:
My blemishes in them, and so still think of
and as I told you, my young lady bade me inquire you
I have a thousand spirits in one breast,
No bending knee will call thee Caesar now,
DUKE VINCENTIO:
I may not prove inferior to yourself.
Full soon the canker death eats up that plant.
Digressing from the valour of a man;
Has he dined, canst thou tell? for I would not
Proud majesty a subject, state a peasant.
Vilely bound up? What would he say? Or how
And not be Richard that hath done all this.
Come, sir, I know what I know.
PETRUCHIO:
Ah, thou, the model where old Troy did stand,
Nor need you, on mine honour, have to do
Yet, were there but this single plot to lose,
DUKE VINCENTIO:
A course of learning and ingenious studies.
would require is likewise your own benefit.
With thee awhile: determine on some course,
heart is full of woe:' O, play me some merry dump,
O Dorset, speak not to me, get thee hence!
Were he the butcher of my son, he should
But, whiles he thought to steal the single ten,
Nor no one here; for curses never pass
No, sir, I do not bite my thumb at you, sir, but I
Overdone's own house, for here be many of her old
In the base court? Come down? Down, court!
Marry, I thank your good worship for it. What is't
'Tis even so; yet you are Warwick still.
What likelihood of his amendment, lords?
PRINCE EDWARD:
Which some call nature's bastards: of that kind
Tell them that God bids us do good for evil:
Rather our state's defective for requital
And thou shalt have twelve thousand fighting men!
Which, though thou wouldst deny, denies thee vantage.
Thy Clarence he is dead that kill'd my Edward;
Tut, were it farther off, I'll pluck it down.
If this might be a brother.
BUCKINGHAM:
tender-bodied and the only son of my womb, when
Doing more murders in this loathsome world,
Sorrow on thee and all the pack of you,
afflicts us, the object of our misery, is as an
For that it made my imprisonment a pleasure;
Pray you, put up your dagger, and put out your wit.
Conceit, more rich in matter than in words,
I hope you will not mock me with a husband.
And I am struck with sorrow. Take him up.
Here is a wonder, if you talk of a wonder.
May have some scope to beat, or else I swoon
And I myself secure in grace and favour.
And, as thou seest, ourselves in heavy plight.
And, as I am a gentleman, I credit him.
And whither fly the gnats but to the sun?
FRIAR LAURENCE:
Clifford, repent in bootless penitence.
That's true enough;
Why, here is the note of the fashion to testify
Before the tag return? whose rage doth rend
To raze one title of your honour out:
As he controll'd the war; but one of these--
To speak of peace or war.
I'll play the housewife for this once. What, ho!
And stole into the covert of the wood:
Name not the god, thou boy of tears!
Her wagoner a small grey-coated gnat,
He came with flowers to strew his lady's grave;
First Servant:
AUTOLYCUS:
Saw you Aufidius?
Away with her, and waft her hence to France.
His gracious pleasure any way therein:
Upon thy wicked dam, come forth!
belly, ere I should come by a fire to thaw me: but
KING HENRY VI:
ta'en from me, and these detestable things put upon
With piercing steel at bold Mercutio's breast,
Than in my greatness covet to be hid,
my head fill my belly; one fruitful meal would set
Well, let that pass. Dorset is fled to Richmond.
speak this in hunger for bread, not in thirst for revenge.
CORIOLANUS:
To dash our late decree in parliament
Now, the gods crown thee!
In that there's comfort.
He should have had a volume of farewells;
I do not love to look on.
KING RICHARD III:
And therefore law shall scorn him further trial
Hark in thine ear.
And how she's like to be Lucentio's wife.
And, gladly quaked, hear more; where the
yet your butterfly was a grub. This Marcius is grown
To make the base earth proud with kissing it:
Second Lord:
I will perform it to enfranchise you.
BRAKENBURY:
An hypocrite, a virgin-violator;
Shall witness to him I am near at home,
What 'tis to cram a maw or clothe a back
And so deliver, I am put to sea
Which fondly you would here impose on me;
How you can frown than spend a fawn upon 'em,
their adversaries. Have you an army ready, say you?
And if no gentleman, why then no arms.
getting wenches with child, wronging the ancientry,
many friends as enemies; which friends, sir, as it
An ancient angel coming down the hill,
You that will be less fearful than discreet,
Tell him, and spare not: look, what I have said
proclamation. Let him be but testimonied in his own
Tread on the sand; why, there you quickly sink:
dull tribunes,
BUCKINGHAM:
Clean over-blown, themselves, the conquerors.
I never look'd for better at his hands,
I will in, to be revenged for this villany.
First Lady:
I will not bandy with thee word for word,
Do you hear how he misplaces?
But with such words that are but rooted in
And the Lord Hastings, who attended him
Whereto, when they shall know what men are rich,
But there's no remedy.
See how the surly Warwick mans the wall!
joy were now become a loss, cries 'O, thy mother,
What, had he so?
Most ponderous and substantial things!
Farewell: our countrymen are gone and fled,
Into the tumbling billows of the main.
With purple fountains issuing from your veins,
For him, poor soul. The proudest of you all
We will meet them,
Bend thoughts and wits to achieve her. Thus it stands:
GLOUCESTER:
He approaches: you shall hear him.
The blind to bear him speak: matrons flung gloves,
I shall beat you to your tent, and prove a shrewd
Well, I say no: and therefore for assurance
As I thought, dead, and have in vain said many
Say to me, when sawest thou the Prince Florizel, my
Between you 'greed concerning her observance?
KING RICHARD III:
This is not Romeo, he's some other where.
Thy kingly doom and sentence of his pride.
From sun to sun: there is my honour's pawn;
KING EDWARD IV:
As they would hang them on the horns o' the moon,
Came to me, as I follow'd Henry's corse,
Your grace may do your pleasure.
I am too bold, 'tis not to me she speaks:
My grandam told me he was murdered there.
But I hear, no; they say my son of York
To princely Richard and to Buckingham.
QUEEN MARGARET:
O sir, I shall be hated to report it!
By and by, I come:--
And all that poets feign of bliss and joy.
BALTHASAR:
Never, but once.
So please you, let me now be left alone,
What is the time o' the day?
She wakes; and I entreated her come forth,
I pray, sir, tell me, is it possible
And once again proclaim us King of England.
Sir Edward Courtney, and the haughty prelate
Do you hear how we are shent for keeping your
For patience she will prove a second Grissel,
wicked villain, despite of all grace.
Banished, sir.
there rooted betwixt them then such an affection,
Committed by your person and your followers
For me, if I be gored with Mowbray's spear:
And say she uttereth piercing eloquence:
Say on, my loving lord.
That lack'd sight only, nought for approbation
trial of you only. Therefore fasten your ear on my
For learning me your language!
PETRUCHIO:
That thus can make him bite the law by the nose,
Draw near, Queen Margaret, and be a witness
Farewell, farewell.
Harry Bolingbroke doth humbly kiss thy hand;
Set down our host. My partner in this action,
Sons, peace!
So please you, madam,
Speak thou for me and tell them what I did.
Was the first man that leap'd; cried, 'Hell is empty
GLOUCESTER:
And go, Sir Paris; every one prepare
It will not be avoided but by this.
Pedascule, I'll watch you better yet.
More worthier than their voices. They know the corn
To whom we all rest generally beholding.
KING HENRY VI:
While I make way from hence to save my life:
FRIAR LAURENCE:
Do make myself a suitor to your daughter,
Which tired majesty did make thee offer,
but, I'll warrant him, as gentle as a lamb. Go thy
she, that this house, if it be not a bawd's house,
Then both, or one, or any thing thou wilt.
As well as Lewis of France, or the Earl of Warwick,
DUKE VINCENTIO:
Clerk-like experienced, which no less adorns
This way the king will come; this is the way
Which, in the day of battle, tire thee more
great rich Capulet; and if you be not of the house
Whose salt imagination yet hath wrong'd
Many years of happy days befal
For Edward my son, which was Prince of Wales,
Not since widow Dido's time.
And once again bestride our foaming steeds,
Gentlemen, go, muster up your men,
To nothing but despair. A thousand knees
POLIXENES:
I stretch it out for that word 'broad;' which added
Which renders good for bad, blessings for curses.
and give it his son for an apple.
In being Coriolanus.
Let us survey the vantage of the field
He speak against me on the adverse side,
And, till so much blood thither come again,
If you be hired for meed, go back again,
There is no end, no limit, measure, bound,
The running of one glass.
First, the fair reverence of your highness curbs me
Will bring me to consider that which may
Let us be back'd with God and with the seas
Pray you, let's to him.
So you have: but I was a gentleman born before my
You may partake of any thing we say:
Stand, and go back.
Therefore do nimble-pinion'd doves draw love,
And do thee favours with my royal hands.
My foreward shall be drawn out all in length,
known well enough too?
Traitor! how now!
That King Leontes shall not have an heir
First kiss me, Kate, and we will.
Sir, I was an inward of his. A shy fellow was the
Not like the fruit of such a goodly tree.
Thou mightst be freed.
POLIXENES:
What is't thou canst demand?
But of the finer natures? by some severals
I had a Harry, till a Richard kill'd him:
I could have given my uncle's grace a flout,
Why, then, though loath, yet must I be content:
trick. If you will hang me for it, you may; but I
renown made it not stir, was pleased to let him seek
their tribunes for ever. This lies glowing, I can
Which oft the angry Mab with blisters plagues,
I bear no hatred, blessed man, for, lo,
From me receive that natural competency
With all my heart; and much it joys me too,
And melancholy is the nurse of frenzy:
To think your father, by some accident,
Call our cares fears; which will in time
Did verily bear blood?
The Duke of Norfolk sends you word by me,
My will to her consent is but a part;
This found I on my tent this morning.
Does reason our petition with more strength
If no inconstant toy, nor womanish fear,
of the prison; give him leave to escape hence, he
And hear the sentence of your moved prince.
being great-bellied, and longing, as I said, for
But from deceit bred by necessity;
Bagot, forbear; thou shalt not take it up.
And I challenge law: attorneys are denied me;
He is a kinsman to the Montague;
I'll show't the king and undertake to be
The least of you shall share his part thereof.
Sirrah, bring Barnardine hither.
FRIAR LAURENCE:
The fish lives in the sea, and 'tis much pride
I think 'twill serve, if he
Fitzwater, thou art damn'd to hell for this.
Ne'er saw her match since first the world begun.
Good king, great king, and yet not greatly good,
A bawd, a bawd, a bawd! so ho!
First Citizen:
My swift command, though I with death and with
I'll go and chat with Paris: hie, make haste,
For this amongst the rest, was I ordain'd.
But for a kingdom any oath may be broken:
My prettiest Perdita!
I neither know it nor can learn of him.
For's private friends: his answer to me was,
FERDINAND:
Is that Camillo was an honest man;
I' the eyes of heaven and to you; I mean,
And other books, good ones, I warrant ye.
He heard the name of death.
Thou shalt be free
I brought high Hereford, if you call him so,
I mean, your voice,--for crowning of the king.
The bird that hath been limed in a bush,
A piteous corse, a bloody piteous corse;
PETRUCHIO:
Is loathsome in his own deliciousness
So shalt thou show me friendship. Take thou that:
Cousins, indeed; and by their uncle cozen'd
And yet methinks your grace hath not done well,
THOMAS MOWBRAY:
O lamentable day!
Son, I have overheard what hath passed between you
Known and allied to yours.
BUCKINGHAM:
And the beholders of this tragic play,
Now, by the stock and honour of my kin,
Ay, and more.
For being a bawd, for being a bawd.
In congregations, to yawn, be still and wonder,
Which in their summer beauty kiss'd each other.
What you have underta'en to do in's absence.
We will for Ireland; and 'tis time, I trow:
CORIOLANUS:
Some trick not worth an egg, shall grow dear friends
When well-apparell'd April on the heel
Depart again: here, here will I remain
From forth the kennel of thy womb hath crept
Well get you gone: o' Thursday be it, then.
duke's time; he promised her marriage: his child
And, by the glorious worth of my descent,
Tell me, how fares our loving mother?
Ay, and a kind one too:
Now the condition.
little finger, there is some hope the ladies of
Would he not stumble? would he not fall down,
In such a business.
perceive that a Jack guardant cannot office me from
Ay, nurse; what of that? both with an R.
And set the murderous Machiavel to school.
I say 'your city,' to his wife and mother;
FRIAR LAURENCE:
Yet blessing on his heart that gives it me!
By help of her more potent ministers
entering, that if any crave redress of injustice,
To every article.
Consul! what consul?
Welcome, good Clarence; this is brotherlike.
Why, then mine honesty shall be my dower;
And time to speak it in: you rub the sore,
The thought of them would have stirr'd up remorse:
news in Rome? I have a note from the Volscian state,
flayed already.
Will follow mine, if once they see them spread;
At Crosby Place, there shall you find us both.
DUCHESS OF YORK:
And as the sun breaks through the darkest clouds,
Is counted lost for ever, Perdita,
No, holy father; throw away that thought;
KING RICHARD II:
Against a change; woe is forerun with woe.
My vouch against you, and my place i' the state,
To spend the time to end it.
To oppose his hatred fully. Welcome home.
PETRUCHIO:
In that's no changeling; and I must excuse
The queen of Naples.
Of ten times double gain of happiness.
to the determination of justice: yet had he framed
Why dost thou say King Richard is deposed?
Doth with a twofold vigour lift me up
Third Citizen:
Through the false passage of thy throat, thou liest.
soon moody to be moved.
Thy father was the Duke of Milan and
So out of circumstance and sudden, tells us
rosemary and Romeo begin both with a letter?
Unless he seek to thrust you out perforce.
I am, in this, commanded to deliver
When he perceives the envious clouds are bent
a snapper-up of unconsidered trifles. With die and
My dainty duck, my dear-a?
For what hath broach'd this tumult but thy pride?
And no more words till they have flow'd their fill.
'Tis time; descend; be stone no more; approach;
The adventure of her person?
This swears he, as he is a prince, is just;
Small as an eunuch, or the virgin voice
Advance thy halbert higher than my breast,
I cheer'd them up with justice of our cause,
And made an evening at the noontide prick.
In him that did object the same to thee;
And spurn me back: but if it be not so,
you speak best unto the purpose, it is not worth the
Bohemia stops his ears, and threatens them
And 'twill be supper-time ere you come there.
On what condition stands it and wherein?
Ho! who is within there?
That your estate requires and mine can yield.
He was a thing of blood, whose every motion
GLOUCESTER:
And, being angry, does forget that ever
The way into his mercy: nay, if he coy'd
danger where he was like to find fame. To a cruel
In deep designs and matters of great moment,
QUEEN ELIZABETH:
No, so God help me, they spake not a word;
Which I have sworn to weed and pluck away.
Never came poison from so sweet a place.
And with dishonour laid me on the ground;
So stakes me to the ground I cannot move.
Be not so hasty to confound my meaning:
By Jupiter! forgot.
'Twas odds, belike, when valiant Warwick fled:
But much of grief shows still some want of wit.
as pale as any clout in the versal world. Doth not
From whence this present day he is deliver'd?
Say Warwick was our anchor; what of that?
The tiger now hath seized the gentle hind;
I'll undertake to land them on our coast
Resume that spirit, when you were wont to say,
You'll kiss me hard and speak to me as if
BUCKINGHAM:
And I have thrust myself into this maze,
Say no more:
And threw the sops all in the sexton's face;
I had fear'd death, of all the men i' the world
'Twere a perpetual spoil: and till we call'd
Who hath descried the number of the foe?
not suffer me: she drops booties in my mouth. I am
Shall have judicious hearing. Stand, Aufidius,
They often feel a world of restless cares:
Of ill-shaped fishes; and about his shelves
And mannerly distinguishment leave out
That my ability may undergo
And yet you halt not.
How to lament the cause. I'll beg one boon,
But thou wilt be avenged on my misdeeds,
Worst in this royal presence may I speak,
Why, 'Jack, boy! ho! boy!' and as much news as
Well, sir; my mistress is the sweetest lady--Lord,
To gratify his noble service that
GLOUCESTER:
But far unfit to be a sovereign.
DUKE OF AUMERLE:
My soul to heaven, my blood upon your heads!
The seal I keep: and so betide to me
ascent is not by such easy degrees as those who,
The gallant, young and noble gentleman,
O, then I see that madmen have no ears.
Nay, come, sit down; then on.
First Lord:
We have with a leaven'd and prepared choice
I would these dewy tears were from the ground.
ANTIGONUS:
Shall I go win my daughter to thy will?
FRIAR LAURENCE:
As you have been; that's for my country:
By any understanding pate but thine?
And, if thou darest, I'll give thee remedy.
the meeting of the two kings?
I would they were in Tiber! What the vengeance!
a puppet or an aglet-baby; or an old trot with ne'er
look upon his removedness; from whom I have this
Or, if sour woe delights in fellowship
My comfort is that heaven will take our souls
AUTOLYCUS:
A damned saint, an honourable villain!
Bushy, what news?
With inky blots and rotten parchment bonds:
A woman's general; what should we fear?
Having bought love with such a bloody spoil.
When daffodils begin to peer,
To kindle their dry stubble; and their blaze
The bitter clamour of two eager tongues,
Better it were they all came by the father,
And with a sudden reinforcement struck
A goodly house: the feast smells well; but I
In brief, sir, study what you most affect.
And cloister thee in some religious house:
That lie shall lie so heavy on my sword,
HENRY BOLINGBROKE:
In half an hour she promised to return.
I am afraid, sir,
Below their cobbled shoes. They say there's
As 'twere to banish their affects with him.
Second Murderer:
brother die by the law than my son should be
Your sudden approbation.
It is extempore, from my mother-wit.
KING RICHARD III:
With letters of your love to her at large.
Lord, Lord, she will be a joyful woman.
Provost, how came it Claudio was beheaded
In thy hand clutch'd as many millions, in
An evident calamity, though we had
One day too late, I fear me, noble lord,
My ashes, as the phoenix, may bring forth
KING RICHARD II:
Which 'tis not fit you know, I not acquaint
But might you do't, and do the world no wrong,
fingers goes not with me.
constable, and my name is Elbow: I do lean upon
To lock up honesty and honour from
CORIOLANUS:
How came it that the absent duke had not either
Are you so brave? I'll have you talked with anon.
Why, then thou canst not break her to the lute?
PETRUCHIO:
PRINCE EDWARD:
With politic grave counsel; then the king
Is Bushy, Green, and the Earl of Wiltshire dead?
And thou, too careless patient as thou art,
Such war of white and red within her cheeks!
And therefore, setting all this chat aside,
I well might hear, delivered with a groan,
My brother's love, the devil, and my rage.
Away! get you away.
If I unwittingly, or in my rage,
Most bounteous sir,
stolen out of other affairs; but I will attend you awhile.
Then thus: I have from Port le Blanc, a bay
remembered. My clown, who wants but something to
No sudden mean of death, though ne'er so mean,
Any silk, any thread,
No; he doth but mistake the truth totally.
The veins unfill'd, our blood is cold, and then
As shall revenge his death before I stir.
Till I have told this slander of his blood,
Are you a courtier, an't like you, sir?
Staying for thine to keep him company:
So first the harmless sheep doth yield his fleece
Darraign your battle, for they are at hand.
To whom, my lord?
Why should I not now have the like success?
Shed for my thankless country are requited
be this morning executed, and his head born to Angelo.
His currish riddles sort not with this place.
NORTHUMBERLAND:
And I will speak, that so my heart may burst.
Than to take in a town with gentle words,
To o'erthrow law and in one self-born hour
What stay had I but Edward? and he's gone.
By you unhappied and disfigured clean:
Thy life hath that dishonour'd.
His grace looks cheerfully and smooth to-day;
We have always truly served you, and beseech you
Well, do not swear: although I joy in thee,
KING RICHARD II:
To have free speech with you; and it concerns me
beguile Nature of her custom, so perfectly he is her
Have said and writ so, but your writing now
And I resign my gage. My dear dear lord,
What wisdom stirs amongst you? Come, sir, now
GLOUCESTER:
And from that torment I will free myself,
Each one demand an answer to his part
had not taken yourself with the manner.
What, have I choked you with an argosy?
But not a minute, king, that thou canst give:
Will not you go?
I have considered so much, Camillo, and with some
When it is least expected.
DUKE VINCENTIO:
Ay, madam, from the reach of these my hands:
So many weeks ere the poor fools will ean:
But the respects thereof are nice and trivial,
To do this ruthless piece of butchery,
Unbind my hands, I'll pull them off myself,
I cannot speak him home: he stopp'd the fliers;
To look into the bottom of my place:
Sir, she was respected with him before he married with her.
But since correction lieth in those hands
But Montague is bound as well as I,
'Tell him,' quoth she, 'my mourning weeds are done,
As if the golden fee for which I plead
The same I am, ere ancient'st order was
What news, my friend?
If they do see thee, they will murder thee.
'Thou liest' unto thee with a voice as free
Promotion follows. If I could find example
In the Duke of Gloucester's purse.
Most reverend and grave elders, to desire
I am ashamed: does not the stone rebuke me
Unless you have the grace by your fair prayer
My Lord of Somerset, at my request,
But is four Volsces? none of you but is
disposition; and out of his noble carelessness lets
Now, by my holidame, here comes Katharina!
As for the brat of this accursed duke,
husband at home, my son and my servant spend all at
A goodly city is this Antium. City,
Were jocund, and supposed their state was sure,
prisoner the very debt of your calling. I have
To one whom they had punish'd.
DUKE VINCENTIO:
Shall I dash out. Go, take it to the fire;
Or never after look me in the face:
Heir to the crown; meaning indeed his house,
His name, my lord, is Tyrrel.
O monstrous, monstrous! and so falls it out
I make you both protectors of this land,
You'll leave his lecture when I am in tune?
I long with all my heart to see the prince:
And tent themselves with death. Of all the horses,
My lord, most villanously; believe it.
Of dear import, and the neglecting it
mistress is a respected woman.
Pompey: you will turn good husband now, Pompey; you
As mice by lions--hath pick'd out an act,
What man art thou that thus bescreen'd in night
And those his golden beams to you here lent
There was a time when all the body's members
Slander myself as false to Edward's bed;
Ere you were queen, yea, or your husband king,
None, sir, none.
Last night, I hear, they lay at Northampton;
Or die a soldier, as I lived a king.
That it may enter Mowbray's waxen coat,
Under whose shade the ramping lion slept,
wrong to put you so oft upon 't: are there not men
My mirth it much displeased, but pleased my woe.
That's somewhat madly spoken.
DUKE VINCENTIO:
Of what degree soever, with his brother.
To me inveterate, hearkens my brother's suit;
That's off, that's off;
Deservedly confined into this rock,
DUKE OF YORK:
Better it is to die, better to starve,
Charged our main battle's front, and breaking in
Will now deny to dance? she that makes dainty,
Hold me a foe;
He will allow no speech, which I do guess
Come, I will bring thee to thy bridal chamber.
His hand to wield a sceptre, and himself
with't, keep it close: home, home, the next way.
Becomes it thee to be thus bold in terms
To call them woollen vassals, things created
My noble uncle, do you know the cause?
Against my brother's life.
And state of bodies would bewray what life
First Watchman:
especially to know himself.
Then must your brother die.
And so obsequious will thy father be,
A forted residence 'gainst the tooth of time
discover his government.
But now I see our lances are but straws,
person hath here writ. I must to the learned.--In good time.
wooing. Neighbour, this is a gift very grateful, I am
First Murderer:
Against the wind a mile! You souls of geese,
it. Nay, friar, I am a kind of burr; I shall stick.
GLOUCESTER:
to a husband we set his youngest free for a husband,
But when I came, some minute ere the time
HENRY BOLINGBROKE:
Beseeching thee, if with they will it stands
What are they that fly there?
O, me alone! make you a sword of me?
Be judged by subject and inferior breath,
And me too, good Lord!
That most are busied when they're most alone,
Come, gentle night, come, loving, black-brow'd night,
Go, play, boy, play: thy mother plays, and I
MISTRESS OVERDONE:
Boatswain:
NORTHUMBERLAND:
Why then, by God--
Dead art thou! Alack! my child is dead;
This battle fares like to the morning's war,
As I by thine a wife: this is a match,
shalt hear; 'tis in three parts.
Will hiss me to my grave: contempt and clamour
LORD STANLEY:
Tut, tut, thou art all ice, thy kindness freezeth:
My name be blotted from the book of life,
To fleer and scorn at our solemnity?
DUKE VINCENTIO:
These letters will resolve him of my mind. Farewell.
Well might they fester 'gainst ingratitude,
Is longer than the tale thou dost excuse.
And dull unfeeling barren ignorance
Fair Queen of England, worthy Margaret,
Foul wrinkled witch, what makest thou in my sight?
BIONDELLO:
I know not how to tell thee who I am:
That horse that thou so often hast bestrid,
Thyself thyself misusest.
She is your treasure, she must have a husband;
I thank my liege, that in regard of me
I speak no more than what my soul intends;
QUEEN ELIZABETH:
And then hurl down their indignation
This night I hold an old accustom'd feast,
God grant we never may have need of you!
What sayest thou? speak suddenly; be brief.
We'll have no Cupid hoodwink'd with a scarf,
And haste is needful in this desperate case.
Than the soft myrtle: but man, proud man,
I come about my brother.
To save this brother's life?
O, but impatience waiteth on true sorrow.
Messenger:
Is this the daughter of a king?
Is there no manners left among maids? will they
comes, and again; catched it again; or whether his
Twice being
And then dreams he of cutting foreign throats,
If he were dead, what would betide of me?
Have made it tedious, wearisome, and heavy
A league below the city; and from thence,
GLOUCESTER:
And keep your honours safe!
My friends of noble touch, when I am forth,
Because we see it; but what we do not see
That it is meet so few should fetch the prince.
Ay, those attires are best: but, gentle nurse,
It strains me past the compass of my wits:
Ha! durst the traitor breathe out so proud words?
ignorance, given your enemy your shield, think to
it follows,
under the hangman: which though it be great pity,
The by-gone day proclaim'd: say this to him,
Where is he?
found his heir?
I muse my mother
Even in the afternoon of her best days,
HENRY BOLINGBROKE:
Or, by Saint Paul, I'll strike thee to my foot,
Endured of her, for whom you bid like sorrow.
Partake to every one. I, an old turtle,
Deceitful Warwick! it was thy device
Say it be, 'tis true.
May tear a passage through the flinty ribs
And the place death, considering who thou art,
Should be as holy as severe;
A parlous knock; and it cried bitterly:
Intending deep suspicion: ghastly looks
CORIOLANUS:
My lord, your son was gone before I came.
And Somerset another goodly mast?
That you in pity may dissolve to dew,
Will then cry out of Marcius 'O if he
CLEOMENES:
Your hearts of sorrow and your eyes of tears:
I am bound to you:
KING RICHARD II:
Look behind you, my lord.
But buckle with thee blows, twice two for one.
Rush all to pieces on thy rocky bosom.
The rage be his, whilst on the earth I rain
That sort was well fished for.
With this young prince.
To call upon him.
other reason but because thou hast hazel eyes: what
GLOUCESTER:
Thou fond mad woman,
And given his deputation all the organs
QUEEN MARGARET:
HENRY BOLINGBROKE:
Why, what a peevish fool was that of Crete,
Doth my name lodge? tell me, that I may sack
As living here and you no use of him.
though I am not bookish, yet I can read
With pay and thanks, and let's away to London
If e'er thou wast thyself and these woes thine,
Thy wife and children's blood. For myself, son,
Told me, the king, provoked by the queen,
Not unlike,
QUEEN MARGARET:
The other for some while a friend.
GLOUCESTER:
The access of gentle visitors!
Use careful watch, choose trusty sentinels.
Myself to see the issue.
Dash'd all to pieces. O, the cry did knock
Why, uncle, what's the matter?
GLOUCESTER:
And soon lie Richard in an earthly pit!
'Tis the Lord Hastings, the king's chiefest friend.
Do, good my lord, your citizens entreat you.
How hath your lordship brook'd imprisonment?
Made issue from the bosom of the boy;
back thy business there: whereupon I command thee to
And urged it twice together, did he not?
First Conspirator:
And from the common'st creature pluck a glove,
I would fain say, bleed tears, for I am sure my
Of laughing with a sigh?--a note infallible
I am no pilot; yet, wert thou as far
And so doth mine: I muse why she's at liberty.
Not yet thou knowest me, and, seeing me, dost not
KING RICHARD III:
Live in thy tongue and heart: old Escalus,
Nay, good goose, bite not.
Hath not a tomb so evident as a chair
Unto their losses twenty thousand crowns;
Examine every married lineament,
And sack great Rome with Romans.
And what God will, that let your king perform;
Richard, I bear thy name; I'll venge thy death,
God save his majesty!
DUKE VINCENTIO:
As shall with either part's agreement stand?
Hie thee to hell for shame, and leave the world,
Which, at more leisure, I will so excuse
you first,
the matter, he makes the maid to answer 'Whoop, do me
This liberty is all that I request,
This sessions, to our great grief we pronounce,
As I have set them down. If I do send, dispatch
Prodigious birth of love it is to me,
Begot of nothing but vain fantasy,
Intends to appear before the people, hoping
That will encounter with our glorious sun,
Now God in heaven forbid!
That brain'd my purpose. But, peace be with him!
A crown it is that seldom kings enjoy.
POLIXENES:
Second Citizen:
Thither will I with you; for little office
I should not for my life but weep with him.
To bloody thoughts and to revenge, I chose
Which he, young wanton and effeminate boy,
QUEEN ELIZABETH:
Northumberland comes back from Bolingbroke.
Dost thou love me? I know thou wilt say 'Ay,'
Well, sir, in brief, the gown is not for me.
Well, there went but a pair of shears between us.
Get thee to bed, and rest; for thou hast need.
unstanched wench.
Of officer and office, set all hearts i' the state
Let them hang.
And credulous to false prints.
Second Watchman:
Unless the adage must be verified,
That were some love but little policy.
KING RICHARD III:
It shall be so, it shall be so; let him away:
How now! who's there?
Besides, our nearness to the king in love
Are you a suitor to the maid you talk of, yea or no?
What is the news from this good deputy?
But yesternight, my lord, she and that friar,
I am a gentleman of Verona, sir,
My parks, my walks, my manors that I had.
I did not kill your husband.
Her advocate to the loud'st. We do not know
For you and I are past our dancing days:
years' health; in which time I will make a lip at
Finds brotherhood in thee no sharper spur?
LADY ANNE:
Our former hatred, so thrive I and mine!
Have moved his highness to commit me now.
BUCKINGHAM:
I was too hot to do somebody good,
Please you to do't,
Have been so brief with you, to shorten you,
He water'd his new plants with dews of flattery,
Nor none that live, I hope.
Go about it.
Or in my cell there would she kill herself.
What, resists he? Help him, Lucio.
No, Warwick, no; while life upholds this arm,
Here he comes, and in the gown of humility: mark his
Of thousands that had struck anointed kings
speak you.
gain by you.
My elder brother, the Lord Aubrey Vere,
What, what, what!
Because his painted skin contents the eye?
Tranio, since for the great desire I had
As any cordial comfort. Still, methinks,
Unhappy fortune! by my brotherhood,
Come, go with us; speak fair: you may salve so,
That in thy likeness thou appear to us!
This lady's husband here, this, do you see--
BIONDELLO:
power that we have no power to do; for if he show us
Fear not, my lord, I'll play the orator
No earthly mean to save him, but that either
Weapons, weapons, weapons!
house. Shall we thither and with our company piece
Must I receive, whose every word deserves
And will by twos and threes at several posterns
Your eye hath too much youth in't: not a month
Which is the god of my idolatry,
And in thy thought o'er-run my former time;
Take him up gently and to bed with him;
Thou yard, three-quarters, half-yard, quarter, nail!
Patience is for poltroons, such as he:
redeem you from your gyves; if not, you shall have
Bore us some leagues to sea; where they prepared
Which seems a little fouler than it is,
That ever yet this land was guilty of.
Revoke that doom of mercy, for 'tis Clifford;
DUKE VINCENTIO:
Be thou revenged on men, and let me live.
say, if he would incline to the people, there was
Sad-hearted men, much overgone with care,
You understand me?
To the rock, to the rock with him!
And both return back to their chairs again:
Softer and sweeter than the lustful bed
Death is a fearful thing.
If ever you disturb our streets again,
So soon as yours could win me: so it should now,
Hear you this Triton of the minnows? mark you
Or I will drag thee on a hurdle thither.
Our contract celebrated.
Sirrah, if thy captain knew I were here, he would
JOHN OF GAUNT:
PETRUCHIO:
The woe's to come; the children yet unborn.
BUCKINGHAM:
PETRUCHIO:
Unless you were of gentler, milder mould.
on crutches till he had one.
Make thee the father of their idle dreams
O, how we joy to see your wit restored!
And where two raging fires meet together
Unfit to live or die: O gravel heart!
Killing our enemies, the blood he hath lost--
As Hercules
DUCHESS OF YORK:
his treading: he is able to pierce a corslet with
Most strange, but yet most truly, will I speak:
To thread the postern of a small needle's eye.'
Have all forsook me, hath devour'd the rest;
A prince of power.
One word more, one word.
Since it is bankrupt of his majesty.
We will persuade him, be it possible,
Your reasons are too shallow and too quick.
A good direction, warlike sovereign.
John Duke of Norfolk, Walter Lord Ferrers,
Yet let us all together to our troops,
You are at point to lose your liberties:
I hate the murderer, love him murdered.
CORIOLANUS:
'Gainst thee, fell Clifford, and thee, false
Or thou wert born a fool. Camillo's flight,
A twofold marriage, 'twixt my crown and me,
Nor wish'd to hold my peace.
Father of Warwick, know you what this means?
approbation.
Hast thou, according to thy oath and band,
Behold our human actions, as they do,
Against the Greeks that would have enter'd Troy.
Shall in despite enforce a watery eye.
To rain a shower of commanded tears,
Is this the alliance that he seeks with France?
Bolingbroke!'
Would God that any in this noble presence
Hath brought me to thy hearth; not out of hope--
So cunning and so young is wonderful.
the same kind! This would make mercy swear and play
I was anointed king at nine months old;
In some sort, sir: but though my case be a pitiful
In most uneven and distracted manner. His actions
And twice to-day pick'd out the dullest scent:
POLIXENES:
He bears him like a portly gentleman;
HORTENSIO:
Good my lord, be good to me; your honour is accounted
At Antium.
Happier the man, whom favourable stars
so honourable a grave as to stuff a botcher's
The king's grown bankrupt, like a broken man.
Upon his bad life to make all this good,
And rob his temples of the diadem,
HENRY BOLINGBROKE:
Sweet saint, for charity, be not so curst.
Day, yield me not thy light; nor, night, thy rest!
And prick my tender patience, to those thoughts
shepherd. Put not yourself into amazement how these
'Tis done.
What work's, my countrymen, in hand? where go you
Where Claudio stoop'd to death, and with like haste.
In moral paradise of such sweet flesh?
KING RICHARD III:
Come, bring them away: if these be good people in
And be you kings, command, and I'll obey.
His nurse! why, she was dead ere thou wert born.
A beggar begs that never begg'd before.
I have yielded to: fresh embassies and suits,
Neglected my sworn duty in that case.
What news? what news?
Of what we chance to sentence.
Drop-heir that killed lusty Pudding, and Master
Shall best instruct you, measure me; and so
Which oft infects the wisest: these, my lord,
Wert thou not brother to great Edward's son,
My dangerous cousin, let your mother in:
He has betray'd your business, and given up,
Is not much miss'd, but with his friends:
and undoes description to do it.
Look, when he fawns, he bites; and when he bites,
This youth should say 'twere well and only therefore
A dire induction am I witness to,
To mild entreaties, God in heaven forbid
to think!--
my master and mistress are almost frozen to death.
And interchangeably hurl down my gage
No, no, forsooth; I dare not for my life.
Done. The wager?
All cause unborn, could never be the motive
Here cousin:
Thy brother's blood the thirsty earth hath drunk,
But where to-morrow? Well, all's one for that.
They are all forth. Well, I will walk myself
Were in Arabia, and thy tribe before him,
Sir, the duke is marvellous little beholding to your
What answer makes King Lewis unto our letters?
He shall not rule me.
Let me entreat you speak the former language.
And thus I took the vantage of those few,
Unto my brother, Archbishop of York.
Why stand we like soft-hearted women here,
POLIXENES:
QUEEN MARGARET:
therefore, back to Rome, and prepare for your
HORTENSIO:
Lest in this marriage he should be dishonour'd,
Of the queen's speed, is gone.
Third Citizen:
Who slew to-day a righteous gentleman
Is far beyond a prince's delicates,
KATHARINA:
Away, away! for he is coming hither.
you sing prick-song, keeps time, distance, and
And, lords, towards Coventry bend we our course
As he had lost some province and a region
Why, our battalion trebles that account:
To make you garlands of, and my sweet friend,
FRIAR THOMAS:
And thou usurp'st my father's right and mine.
For there it is, crack'd in a hundred shivers.
Which we disdain should tatter us, yet sought
How can you say to me, I am a king?
I must dance bare-foot on her wedding day
DUKE OF YORK:
as Claudio's, to cross this in the smallest.
And hug it in mine arms.
Petruchio is my name; Antonio's son,
Why, that was he.
he is indeed Justice.
JOHN OF GAUNT:
The one his purple blood right well resembles;
That foul defacer of God's handiwork,
Is the chair empty? is the sword unsway'd?
He that no more must say is listen'd more
HENRY BOLINGBROKE:
and already appearing in the blossoms of their fortune.
May deem that you are worthily deposed.
It were a grief, so brief to part with thee: Farewell.
In the base court? Base court, where kings grow base,
Away with that audacious lady! Antigonus,
We have been called so of many; not that our heads
I see old Gaunt alive; O, then, my father,
But tie him not to be their bedfellow.
How dost thou feel thyself now?
Who is most inward with the royal duke?
you never heard of!
wears for his sake; and he, a marble to her tears,
Brother, I'll go and bring it thee.
And chiefly therefore I thank God and thee;
First Senator:
Your wife, your son, these senators, the nobles;
Well, girl, thou weep'st not so much for his death,
But for thy world enjoying but this land,
If he had been as you and you as he,
Why, then, let's on our way in silent sort:
Yet so much is my poverty of spirit,
And for Rome's good. I'll tell thee what; yet go:
Indeed, I am no mourner for that news,
The gods have well prevented it, and Rome
Before you find it other. All the regions
Of excellent witchcraft, who of force must know
Ere ye come there, be sure to hear some news.
Is she not proud? doth she not count her blest,
Spurr'd, gall'd and tired by jouncing Bolingbroke.
would tell twenty.
Do you bite your thumb at us, sir?
But once before I spoke to the purpose: when?
When thou didst bower the spirit of a fiend
The base is right; 'tis the base knave that jars.
My lord, you nod; you do not mind the play.
And, princely peers, a happy time of day!
How hast thou offended?
indeed, his fact, till now in the government of Lord
Nay, I have ta'en you napping, gentle love,
And, for our coffers, with too great a court
Or nourish'd him as I did with my blood,
is herself in the tub.
Hither to London, to be crown'd our king.
KING RICHARD III:
Most ignorant of what he's most assured,
Voice, gait and action of a gentlewoman:
How, sir! do you meddle with my master?
His rash fierce blaze of riot cannot last,
with his comfort; swallowed his vows whole,
We will unite the white rose and the red:
Or Daphne roaming through a thorny wood,
I dare not know, my lord.
perfect gallows. Stand fast, good Fate, to his
lady a merited benefit; redeem your brother from
Else wherefore breathe I in a Christian land?
If you like me, she shall have me and mine.
I will respect thee as a father if
To have him suddenly convey'd away.
A worthy officer i' the war; but insolent,
Pardon, my lord; I will not show my face
To help him to his grave immediately!
Pray, good shepherd, what fair swain is this
Have to my widow! and if she be froward,
Should know we were afoot.
To fight against that bloody homicide.
Silence that fellow: I would he had some cause
Your highness to assign our trial day.
And have prevail'd as much on him as you.
Forgive him, Angelo, that brought you home
No truly sir; not a penny.
found so severe, that he hath forced me to tell him
So mighty and so many my defects,
You shall.
They have ta'en note of us: keep on your way.
He that doth naught with her, excepting one,
At our more leisure shall I render you;
But, wrangling pedant, this is
The thief doth fear each bush an officer.
And mark what way I make: come, good my lord.
Her father keeps from all access of suitors,
Come, Kate, sit down; I know you have a stomach.
AUTOLYCUS:
Now, what's the matter. Provost?
To greet mine own land with my wishful sight.
As thou art tender to't.
But how long shall that title 'ever' last?
oftener ask forgiveness.
Wherein thyself shalt highly be employ'd.
I know not: but I am sure 'tis safer to
The queen is valued thirty thousand strong,
I'll tell you what; I think it is our way,
For happy wife, a most distressed widow;
I am not I, if there be such an I;
But on his knees at meditation;
ANTIGONUS:
With heads, and not with hands; those whom you curse
KING RICHARD III:
These dangerous unsafe lunes i' the king,
Then am I king'd again: and by and by
Here standeth Thomas Mowbray, Duke of Norfolk,
I pray now, call her.
And spite of spite needs must I rest awhile.
Her madness hath the oddest frame of sense,
this other day, because I was no gentleman born.
I have forgot your name; but, sure, that part
And patient fools,
Now, afore God! this reverend holy friar,
Second Officer:
Where one on his side fights, thousands will fly.
He shall not, Isabel, if you give me love.
DUKE OF YORK:
And spit upon him, whilst I say he lies,
Have been as piercing as the mid-day sun,
drum struck up this afternoon: 'tis, as it were, a
rich by the fairies. This is some changeling:
Was timed with dying cries: alone he enter'd
Put on thee by my lord, thou ne'er shalt see
I tell you, friends, most charitable care
Thy virtues spoke of, and thy beauty sounded,
A dish that I do love to feed upon.
Where is the county's page, that raised the watch?
Carry him gently to my fairest chamber
Of my lord general.
Of any thing the image tell me that
Sham it be put to that?
But what art thou, whose heavy looks foretell
Answer to us.
The brightness of her cheek would shame those stars,
Merely awry: when he did love his country,
VINCENTIO:
Nor cheer of mind, that I was wont to have.
The Volsces have much corn; take these rats thither
My weaved-up folly? Gentle Northumberland,
His cold thin drink out of his leather bottle.
And all the rest o' the fleet.
Cousin, thou wert not wont to be so dull:
will you dismiss the people?
Here in your city; I now came from him:
Well, jest on, brothers: I can tell you both
Where? at the senate-house?
KING RICHARD II:
And tried his inclination; from him pluck'd
For I have heard that she was there in place.
I did; with his contract with Lady Lucy,
In hewing Rutland when his leaves put forth,
May yet ere night yield both my life and them
QUEEN ELIZABETH:
officious; for I am proof against that title and
a tooth in her head, though she have as many diseases
stealing, fighting--Hark you now! Would any but
This is good news:
Than when I parted hence, but still subsisting
Was like to be the best.
CORIOLANUS:
What news abroad i' the world?
And, as we hear, march on to fight with us.
Our sighs and they shall lodge the summer corn,
If I might die within this hour, I have lived
how to choose a man: Romeo! no, not he; though his
A glorious angel: then, if angels fight,
DUKE VINCENTIO:
Good Lord, how bright and goodly shines the moon!
To my inheritance of free descent.
QUEEN ELIZABETH:
His brother, Archbishop late of Canterbury,
Yet lives our pilot still. Is't meet that he
Were to us all, that do't and suffer it,
Then gave I her, so tutor'd by my art,
And he whose wife is most obedient
Wherefore did they not
Pronounce thee a gross lout, a mindless slave,
And power, unto itself most commendable,
Pray you now, if it may stand with the tune of your
If not, how best to bear it.
They are but Lewis and Warwick: I am Edward,
wife was brought to bed of twenty money-bags at a
As blanks, benevolences, and I wot not what:
Is that temptation that doth goad us on
To be revenged on Rivers, Vaughan, Grey:
To be a make-peace shall become my age:
Their banners wave again.
Dared once to touch a dust of England's ground?
you our voices heartily.
Especially in pride.
Though there the people had more absolute power,
Think not that Henry shall be so deposed.
And fell below his stem: his sword, death's stamp,
The owl shriek'd at thy birth,--an evil sign;
For it was bad enough before their spite.
As she from one ungot.
GLOUCESTER:
If you had been the wife of Hercules,
Who was so firm, so constant, that this coil
And vice sometimes by action dignified.
But did I never speak of all that time?
In all which time you and your husband Grey
Who's there? come in: the wish deserves a welcome.
My lord, I know a discontented gentleman,
O, this same thought did but forerun my need;
That villain cousin would have kill'd my husband:
And he himself wander'd away alone,
'lordship:' I ne'er drank sack in my life; and if
And wish thee to a shrewd ill-favour'd wife?
KING EDWARD IV:
And so I pray you all to think yourselves.
ship boring the moon with her main-mast, and anon
Of wounds two dozen odd; battles thrice six
For though you lay here in this goodly chamber,
show your sheep-biting face, and be hanged an hour!
The pretty dimples of his chin and cheek,
And creep into it far before thy time?
Which did subdue the greatest part of Spain;
Since what I am to say must be but that
CORIOLANUS:
To have a worthy feeding: but I have it
Lieutenant:
This dagger hath mista'en--for, lo, his house
Stand you auspicious!
Marry, as for Clarence, he is well repaid,
Fain would I dwell on form, fain, fain deny
fronts encountering,
I'll teach you how you shall arraign your conscience,
Of Sycorax, toads, beetles, bats, light on you!
Here's no place for you: pray, go to the door.
Visit his countrymen and banquet them?
Tut, that's a foolish observation:
The honourable father to my foe
good masters.
Upon that Clifford, that cruel child-killer.
To comfort you: I wot well where he is.
His execution sworn.
Ourself and Bushy, Bagot here and Green
But for my bonny Kate, she must with me.
boldness of my cunning, I will lay myself in hazard.
Petruchio, I shall be your ben venuto.
good favour you have, but that you have a hanging
That I would have spoke of:
MISTRESS OVERDONE:
May say 'This mercy we have show'd;' the Romans,
God for his mercy, what treachery is here!
O, widow Dido! ay, widow Dido.
These arms of mine shall be thy winding-sheet;
Or any he the proudest of thy sort.
That the precipitation might down stretch
GLOUCESTER:
Nay, gentle Romeo, we must have you dance.
The day is hot, the Capulets abroad,
QUEEN ELIZABETH:
Tale-porter, and five or six honest wives that were
I never heard any soldier dislike it.
Thou didst receive the holy sacrament,
He doth with holy abstinence subdue
Why 'her unhappy brother'? let me ask,
With some few private friends upon this coast.
'Tis much. Servants, leave me and her alone.
Ay, to be murder'd by his enemies.
Methinks our garments are now as fresh as when we
'Twas never merry world since, of two usuries, the
Nips youth i' the head and follies doth emmew
Now in the waist, the deck, in every cabin,
KING EDWARD IV:
I am appointed him to murder you.
Thy balm wash'd off wherewith thou wast anointed:
Now my dear lady, hath mine enemies
Say thou wilt course; thy greyhounds are as swift
Where, ere we do repose us, we will write
DUKE VINCENTIO:
Environed with all these hideous fears?
My friend Polixenes: which had been done,
I have seen the dumb men throng to see him and
What is granted them?
QUEEN ELIZABETH:
Without his roe, like a dried herring: flesh, flesh,
With shunless destiny; aidless came off,
Welcome, Sir John! But why come you in arms?
It is apart
Would I admit; no name of magistrate;
GLOUCESTER:
Her heart is but o'ercharged; she will recover:
And I am proof against their enmity.
Like to a censer in a barber's shop:
Hath made his meal on thee?
Is all unpossible.
And Lewis a prince soon won with moving words.
From Rome all season'd office and to wind
And die in bands for this unmanly deed!
For one being fear'd of all, now fearing one;
KING EDWARD IV:
What, Grumio!
singleness.
And mark my greeting well; for what I speak
Well, mildly be it then. Mildly!
But certainly a maid.
Comes rushing on this woeful land at once!
'Farewell:'
Here is the cap your worship did bespeak.
And kingly government of this your land,
Here's one, a friend, and one that knows you well.
As far as doth the Capitol exceed
This is a man, old, wrinkled, faded, wither'd,
Who had but newly entertain'd revenge,
NORTHUMBERLAND:
KING RICHARD III:
In him, a royal prince, and many moe
Thank you, sir: farewell.
His viands sparkling in a golden cup,
Because he would avoid such bitter taunts
An advocate for an imposter! hush!
What say you now? what comfort have we now?
And I with tears do wash the blood away.
For thou dost fear the soft and tender fork
As surfeit is the father of much fast,
My mind presageth happy gain and conquest.
One three of them, by their own report, sir, hath
And since, methinks, I would not grow so fast,
Less impudence to gainsay what they did
When, with a most impatient devilish spirit,
Tell me thine first.
Young son, it argues a distemper'd head
man! Would the duke that is absent have done this?
Been both at Delphos, and from thence have brought
Speak, good Cominius:
I can tell thee pretty tales of the duke.
One, gentlewoman, that God hath made for himself to
Let us be keen, and rather cut a little,
Are pluck'd up root and all by Bolingbroke,
I heard you say that you had rather refuse
and drown? Have you a mind to sink?
And, after that wise prince, Henry the Fifth,
Let them have cushions by you. You are plebeians,
Madam, bethink you, like a careful mother,
When one but of my ordinance stood up
Stands here for God, his sovereign and himself,
And therefore I yield thee my free consent.
Are nursed by baseness. Thou'rt by no means valiant;
Brach Merriman, the poor cur is emboss'd;
Methinks I play as I have seen them do
I lay it naked to the deadly stroke,
When it doth tax itself; as these black masks
A lover may bestride the gossamer
Romeo! humours! madman! passion! lover!
Tell him, when that our princely father York
More than my body's parting with my soul!
And make assurance here in Padua
I cannot tell: the world is grown so bad,
Abate thy valour in the acting it.
The noisome weeds, which without profit suck
More light, you knaves; and turn the tables up,
And you are well met, Signior Hortensio.
I thank you for this comfort. Fare you well, good father.
That tell black tidings.
But you shall bear the burden soon at night.
Dispark'd my parks and fell'd my forest woods,
Deposing thee before thou wert possess'd,
AUTOLYCUS:
Yet shall you have all kindness at my hand
Hermione hath suffer'd death, and that
LADY GREY:
DUKE VINCENTIO:
MISTRESS OVERDONE:
No, if I digg'd up thy forefathers' graves
Fourth Citizen:
Away, away, mad ass! his name is Lucentio and he is
You, cousin Hereford, upon pain of life,
Will cry it o'er again: it is a hint
That all the treasons for these eighteen years
All hurt behind; backs red, and faces pale
Or else he never would compare between.
Good faith, I'll prove him,
And fill'd with honour, to my kingly guest
Fie! what a foolish duty call you this?
KING RICHARD III:
We tread upon, and never think of it.
The presentation of but what I was;
And wear it as a favour; and with that
That he would labour my delivery.
Before and in Corioli, let me say,
men, what you have to the king: being something
Clarence comes.
Why, I can smile, and murder whiles I smile,
One of these two must be necessities,
Hiding his bitter jests in blunt behavior:
heard the shepherd say, he found the child.
But say, is Warwick friends with Margaret?
Methinks I hear hither your husband's drum,
LADY ANNE:
Madam, good night: commend me to your daughter.
From your kind aunt, Duchess of Burgundy,
Gentle my lord, turn back.
Transparent heretics, be burnt for liars!
And yet, to my teeth be it spoken, I have but four--
Do your will.
BISHOP OF CARLISLE:
Where I have seen corruption boil and bubble
From whom we thought it meet to hide our love
LADY ANNE:
This is strange: methinks
That fellow is a fellow of much licence: let him be
me like men:
Advance your standards, draw your willing swords.
HENRY PERCY:
Which we have goaded onward.
For did I but suspect a fearful man
Where'er I wander, boast of this I can,
First Musician:
As blameful as the executioner?
There will we mount, and thither walk on foot
And you shall well be spared.
BUCKINGHAM:
I dreamt my master and another fought,
That always favour'd him.
There lies the substance: and I thank thee, king,
How oft when men are at the point of death
Or seem so craftily; and that's not good.
Alack the day! he's gone, he's kill'd, he's dead!
On me, whose all not equals Edward's moiety?
So forcing faults upon Hermione,
Fan you into despair! Have the power still
Dissentious numbers pestering streets than see
KING EDWARD IV:
And gladly shunn'd who gladly fled from me.
And those but mean.
God will revenge it; whom I will importune
KING EDWARD IV:
Turn then my freshest reputation to
Well mayst thou woo, and happy be thy speed!
Thus do I leave thee. Come, son, let's away;
Messenger:
That's bitter to sweet end.
To aspire unto the crown and reign as king.
Well done, my lord.
They are already, or quickly will be landed:
For taking so the head, your whole head's length.
Thou stern, obdurate, flinty, rough, remorseless.
AUTOLYCUS:
Well ta'en, and like a buzzard.
Tear-falling pity dwells not in this eye.
But in the loss of question,--that you, his sister,
To make an act of tragic violence:
Since every Jack became a gentleman
Then, no, my lord. My suit is at an end.
From their abominable and beastly touches
To the Capitol, come:
If his own life answer the straitness of his
No, nor your manhood that durst make you stay.
For corn at their own rates; whereof, they say,
Whose tongue more poisons than the adder's tooth!
Lay it by too: another.
First Citizen:
I ever saw so noble.
Are you mankind?
raisins o' the sun.
And piece the way out with a heavy heart.
SEBASTIAN:
That makes himself, but for our honour therein,
With whispering and most guilty diligence,
Though thou didst learn, had that in't which
Here's much to do with hate, but more with love.
Upon this overweening traitor's foot,
Why stay we to be baited
Out of thy sleep. What is it thou didst say?
I'll in to counsel them; haply my presence
Hold thy desperate hand:
My lord, her wits, I fear me, are not firm:
GLOUCESTER:
Is it true, think you?
distinctly billeted, already in the entertainment,
And did supply thee at thy garden-house
Nor showing, as the manner is, his wounds
The other to enjoy by rage and war:
Help, ye citizens!
Contempt and beggary hangs upon thy back;
There's more behind that is more gratulate.
see him a man.
Signior Hortensio, come you to part the fray?
This is the day that, in King Edward's time,
With all his trim belonging; and from this time,
Ay, when the special thing is well obtain'd,
Madam, I have a touch of your condition,
Thus strangers may be hailed and abused: O
Look'd wondering each at other.
looking out at the window.
oak not to be wind-shaken.
That have been so bedazzled with the sun
Signior Baptista, my business asketh haste,
should not pass here; no, though it were as virtuous
LADY ANNE:
Nay, let them follow:
thee, I have been blown out of your gates with
That I enjoy, being the queen thereof.
infect my brain, being the herdsmen of the beastly
You're liars all.
DUCHESS OF YORK:
I prithee, good Grumio, tell me, how goes the world?
He's not confirm'd; we may deny him yet.
But be it as it may: I here entail
The spouse of any noble gentleman.
One grave shall be for both: upon them shall
joy crown another, so and in such manner that it
Thy overflow of good converts to bad,
the bottom of the news is that our general is cut i'
That should but rive an oak. Why dost not speak?
For I must hence; and farewell to you all.
That, if this rule were true, he should be gracious.
Hereafter time, for time past wrong'd by thee.
He does fair justice; if he give me way,
to her! If ever I was respected with her, or she
I, sir! ne'er a whit.
What you as from your father shall deliver,
To upstart unthrifts? Wherefore was I born?
In action all of precept, he did show me
But Tuesday night last gone in's garden-house
Of all the under fiends. But if so be
KING LEWIS XI:
GLOUCESTER:
The bound of honour, or in act or will
What raiment will your honour wear to-day?
I know you well, sir, and you know
These, as I learn, and such like toys as these
Second Citizen:
It were impossible I should speed amiss.
To mangle me with that word 'banished'?
Of thy deep duty more impression show
Are made already mothers: by my count,
She comes to do you good.
To chide at your extremes it not becomes me:
Where is thy power, then, to beat him back?
Gives not the hawthorn-bush a sweeter shade
POLIXENES:
PETRUCHIO:
By those that know the very nerves of state,
Or shall I send my daughter Kate to you?
Froth, I would not have you acquainted with
KING RICHARD III:
Well, what then? what then?
KING HENRY VI:
Do what thou canst, I will not go to-day;
But that thy brothers beat aside the point.
Go with me to the vault.
And to conclude, the shepherd's homely curds,
Could fetch your brother from the manacles
Back to the Duke of Gloucester, tell him so.
How but well, sir? how but well?
So many hours must I take my rest;
DUKE OF YORK:
Who made the Dauphin and the French to stoop
But yet hear this: mistake me not; no life,
For 'tis a sign of love; and love to Richard
The common praise it bears.
When I have fought with Pembroke and his fellows,
And stain'd the beauty of a fair queen's cheeks
Now, my Lord Hastings and Sir William Stanley,
POLIXENES:
action of slander too.
It is a quarrel most unnatural,
I am not prone to weeping, as our sex
What case stand I in? I must be the poisoner
You grave but reckless senators, have you thus
Or butchers killing flies.
Thou hast faced many things.
Your mother lives a witness to that vow--
Pray you, take note of it: and when you have
We wait upon your grace.
Well, then, farewell.
With what thou else call'st thine. If thou refuse
O, good sir, tenderly, O!
I dare adventure to be sent to the Tower.
And presently repair to Crosby Place;
Make the sun dance. Hark you!
JOHN OF GAUNT:
It was the friar of orders grey,
O, did you so? And do you remember what you said of the duke?
Brought hither Henry Hereford thy bold son,
An affable and courteous gentleman:
One heaved a-high, to be hurl'd down below;
Saw I men scour so on their way: I eyed them
may I be so bold to know the cause of your coming?
And that's the wavering commons: for their love
Thou hast. Where was she born? speak; tell me.
Than they whom youth and ease have taught to glose;
Of those that lawless and incertain thought
said, the fittest time to corrupt a man's wife is
Or something hath the nothing that I grieve:
Tut, I am strong-framed, he cannot prevail with me,
If he were known alive?
Worthy sir, thou bleed'st;
To thee particularly and to all the Volsces
Shall Romeo bear thee hence to Mantua.
HENRY BOLINGBROKE:
Of pity, not revenge!
You chose her; then I'ld shriek, that even your ears
Do give a life: no shepherdess, but Flora
No: first shall war unpeople this my realm;
And quaff carouses to our mistress' health,
till he had both tune and words; which so drew the
great matter.
Master, some show to welcome us to town.
Very foul.
And ask the Lady Bona for thy queen:
With much ado at length have gotten leave
Must, as a foreign recreant, be led
First Murderer:
So many years ere I shall shear the fleece:
Dare he presume to scorn us in this manner?
You make a leg, and Bolingbroke says ay.
maintained all by helping Baptista's eldest daughter
'Tis figured in my tongue.
Doth live again in thee: long mayst thou live
Some tardy cripple bore the countermand,
You offer him, if this be so, a wrong
AUTOLYCUS:
BUCKINGHAM:
I am the provost. What's your will, good friar?
To see this business. To-morrow next
But by and by comes back to Romeo,
So it should seem by that I have to say.
the courageous captain of compliments. He fights as
Comes it not something near?
Communicatest with dreams;--how can this be?--
True ornaments to know a holy man.
PRINCE EDWARD:
O that I had him,
I warrant thee.
To counterfeit oppression of such grief
And fall somewhat into a slower method,
Though you would seek to unsphere the
Ho, by your leave!
And not a maiden, as thou say'st he is.
FRIAR LAURENCE:
KING RICHARD III:
To prove it on thee to the extremest point
That Angelo's forsworn; is it not strange?
You cry against the noble senate, who,
Put on the gown, stand naked and entreat them,
Then know, it is your fault that you resign
First Murderer:
or we run ourselves aground: bestir, bestir.
Which had you rather, that the most just law
And make a dearth in this revolting land.
And who should say, 'I would thou wert the man'
The other, when she has obtain'd your eye,
Marry, that, I think, be young Petrucio.
kind of behavior, as they say: for the gentlewoman
Was done to death? and more than so, my father,
Second Servingman:
'Tis not to save labour, nor that I want love.
Thou call'dst me up at midnight to fetch dew
Nor aught so good but strain'd from that fair use
QUEEN ELIZABETH:
Here comes the Duke of York.
Your choice is not so rich in worth as beauty,
Till you did make him misinterpret me,
And now you know my meaning,
The root of his opinion, which is rotten
I will pray, Pompey, to increase your bondage: If
KING RICHARD III:
Second Murderer:
And that my path were even to the crown,
The Duke of Norfolk, sprightfully and bold,
Thus high, by thy advice
But when he frown'd, it was against the French
So like a waking. To me comes a creature,
And shall the same give pardon to a slave?
I'll try whether my old wit be in request
If ever he have child, abortive be it,
Back'd by the power of Warwick, that false peer,
Go you to Juliet ere you go to bed,
It is not truer he is Angelo
My men should call me 'lord:' I am your goodman.
To act her earthy and abhorr'd commands,
A merriment than a vice.
Your voices: for your voices I have fought;
But love thee better than thou canst devise,
PETRUCHIO:
that let me inform you.
these strange flies, these fashion-mongers, these
On pain to be found false and recreant,
But who comes here?
DUKE OF YORK:
Let him be made a coverture for the wars!
KING EDWARD IV:
Of palsied eld; and when thou art old and rich,
Doing annoyance to the treacherous feet
Proportion'd as one's thought would wish a man;
By her, in his unlawful bed, he got
And full as oft came Edward to my side,
Where we're offenders now, appear soul-vex'd,
Third Citizen:
See, what a scourge is laid upon your hate,
And know not now what name to call myself!
For Christian service and true chivalry,
I do owe them still
QUEEN ELIZABETH:
Appear thou in the likeness of a sigh:
When he wakes! why, fool, he shall never wake till
O here's a wit of cheveril, that stretches from an
O, spare me not, my brother Edward's son,
Methoughts that I had broken from the Tower,
Go to; I say you shall.
For that he knew you, might reproach your life
thy mother!' then asks Bohemia forgiveness; then
will serve; for once we stood up about the corn, he
Ay, and it makes men hate one another.
Sufficeth I am come to keep my word,
Edward, her lord, whom I, some three months since,
deceiving father of a deceitful son.
O, were it but my life,
Remnants of packthread and old cakes of roses,
O, good! convey? conveyers are you all,
think it fit to shore them again and that the
PETRUCHIO:
Thieves are not judged but they are by to hear,
staring on one another, to tear the cases of their
honestly; for, as you know, Master Froth, I could
Are you of fourscore pounds a year?
advisings: to the love I have in doing good a
No more than from my soul I mourn for yours.
He hath paid you all he promised you; may be, he has
To your high presence.
To enter our Rome gates: i' the people's name,
If I had a mind to be honest, I see Fortune would
Good sir, adieu.
You never spoke what did become you less
Yes, I know thee to be Signior Lucentio.
Yet neither conqueror nor conquered:
Widow, we will consider of your suit;
defender of them, and, in a violent popular
Behold our patroness, the life of Rome!
To choose you a queen: she shall not be so young
O Romeo, Romeo, brave Mercutio's dead!
Lie hid moe thousand deaths: yet death we fear,
That die unmarried, ere they can behold
For, being transported by my jealousies
Death on the wheel or at wild horses' heels,
winds. The heavens continue their loves!
KING EDWARD IV:
What means this scene of rude impatience?
Thou canst help time to furrow me with age,
Which since we cannot do to make you friends,
Were not the proof so nigh. Please you, great sir,
As Henry's late presaging prophecy
With the sweet silent hours of marriage joys
And here remain with your uncertainty!
QUEEN ELIZABETH:
Fear you the boar, and go so unprovided?
Your followers I will whisper to the business,
combinate husband, this well-seeming Angelo.
I'll have no wife, Paulina.
Stirr'd up by Dorset, Buckingham, and Ely,
Knock you here, sir! why, sir, what am I, sir, that
Monday! ha, ha! Well, Wednesday is too soon,
I thank thee, good Sir John, with all my heart.
Will you tell me that?
DUKE OF YORK:
I would speak with Clarence, and I came hither on my legs.
All springs reduce their currents to mine eyes,
Of what is past.
Virtue and that part of philosophy
In those unfledged days was my wife a girl;
The meanest house in Rome, so far my son--
Come on, then,
The lineal glory of your royal house,
Sir, to your pleasure humbly I subscribe:
I do not, sir.
KING LEWIS XI:
brave Titus:
By silken, sly, insinuating Jacks?
The shadow of my sorrow! ha! let's see:
KING RICHARD III:
I never should forget it: 'Wilt thou not, Jule?' quoth he;
That I have fondly flatter'd her withal.
To me the difference forges dread; your greatness
DUKE VINCENTIO:
O monstrous arrogance! Thou liest, thou thread,
SEBASTIAN:
Must Edward fall, which peril heaven forfend!
But then up farther, and as for as Rome;
Go, tread the path that thou shalt ne'er return.
It honour'd him.
Scratching her legs that one shall swear she bleeds,
First Senator:
And I, to make thee mad, do mock thee thus.
Some consequence yet hanging in the stars
I play'd the fool, it was my negligence,
Bondage is hoarse, and may not speak aloud;
Were never for a piece of beauty rarer,
Neighbours, God speed!
Even like an o'ergrown lion in a cave,
purse; I could have filed keys off that hung in
POLIXENES:
Unless a pardon ere I rise or speak.
expound the meaning or moral of his signs and tokens.
POLIXENES:
For then this land was famously enrich'd
Commit me for committing honour, trust it,
Now, afore God, 'tis shame such wrongs are borne
Good my lord, be cured
DUCHESS OF YORK:
Nor a musician, as I seem to be;
How shall this bisson multitude digest
O thou damnable fellow! Did not I pluck thee by the
LADY ANNE:
First Servant:
Call me their traitor! Thou injurious tribune!
That's like my brother's fault: if it confess
Do you persuade yourself that I respect you?
though they be not to be talked on, yet they are
Let me entreat you.
bound with oak. I tell thee, daughter, I sprang not
fancies' pricked in't for a feather: a monster, a
PETRUCHIO:
the common people.
And as I truly fight, defend me heaven!
BUCKINGHAM:
Razed out my imprese, leaving me no sign,
O my most sacred lady!
Rue, even for ruth, here shortly shall be seen,
O, fie, fie, fie!
And twenty caged nightingales do sing:
A freckled whelp hag-born--not honour'd with
And deck my body in gay ornaments,
Because she will not be annoy'd with suitors.
The image of it gives me content already; and I
DUCHESS OF YORK:
We are all frail.
duke: and I believe I know the cause of his
KING RICHARD II:
HENRY BOLINGBROKE:
And you the queen on't.
I had been still a happy king of men.
Commend me to thy lady.
You have but jested with me all this while:
I offer'd to awaken his regard
What! lack I credit?
accidentally to encounter you: you have ended my
Why, she hath a face of her own.
More than prince of cats, I can tell you. O, he is
A traitor to my God, my king, and me:
That we remember. There is our commission,
CORIOLANUS:
Alack, alack, is it not like that I,
I go; and if you plead as well for them
Good wombs have borne bad sons.
God knows I had as lief be none as one.
I am your neighbour, and was suitor first.
We waste our lights in vain, like lamps by day.
withdrawing.
Paulina! She had one eye declined for the loss of
My brother was too careless of his charge.
SIR STEPHEN SCROOP:
I will discharge thee.
Sound, trumpets; and set forward, combatants.
and scatter'd,
Go to, go to;
Villains, set down the corse; or, by Saint Paul,
That hath dismissed us from our stewardship;
These dead men's tombs.
Her brother, having both their country quitted
Of greater sums than I have promised.
How canst thou urge God's dreadful law to us,
have fought with the men, I will be cruel with the
For, were he, he had shown it in his looks.
by the ears? make haste, lest mine be about your
She-wolf of France, but worse than wolves of France,
Prepare thy brow to frown: know'st
Nor now my scandal, Richard, dost thou hear;
For though abundantly they lack discretion,
DUKE OF YORK:
My love and fear glued many friends to thee;
And where's that valiant crook-back prodigy,
Ay, ay, for this I draw in many a tear
as fresh as when we were at Tunis at the marriage
Yet tell me not, for I have heard it all.
Pitiful sight! here lies the county slain,
With stately triumphs, mirthful comic shows,
PETRUCHIO:
For thou art fortunate in all thy deeds.
That his contempt shall not be bruising to you,
Second Citizen:
That valour is the chiefest virtue, and
In truth, fair Montague, I am too fond,
SEBASTIAN:
KING EDWARD IV:
That would divorce this terror from my heart;'
For of joy, being altogether wanting,
Come, what talk you
KING EDWARD IV:
GLOUCESTER:
And lasting fealty to the new-made king.
I for a Clarence weep, so doth not she:
Requite your love!
Namely, to Hastings, Derby, Buckingham;
Why should he die, sir?
To have nor eyes nor ears nor thought, then say
Why, I am past my gamut long ago.
Do not you fear: upon mine honour,
Which never were nor no man ever saw.
That thou wert cause of noble Gloucester's death.
With old Menenius, and those senators
To save your life in this extremity,
Let it be virtuous to be obstinate.
That I, being govern'd by the watery moon,
And gasping to begin some speech, her eyes
Should be in them to give.
you fearful, that neither my coat, integrity, nor
Fall like amazing thunder on the casque
Ah me! how sweet is love itself possess'd,
I know them both.
Insisting on the old prerogative
Sometime puts forth. In your affairs, my lord,
Devouring pestilence hangs in our air
And shrieks like mandrakes' torn out of the earth,
She's apt to learn and thankful for good turns.
To call him villain? and then to glance from him
to the goose, proves thee far and wide a broad goose.
A sad tale's best for winter: I have one
Coin words till their decay against those measles,
LADY GREY:
And doubt you not, right noble princes both,
Is leaden servitor to dull delay;
I am so dishonour'd that the very hour
how the young folks lay their heads together!
To-night she is mew'd up to her heaviness.
Huntsman, I charge thee, tender well my hounds:
Mercy but murders, pardoning those that kill.
Does of the shepherds: for his best friends, if they
Hast cleansed my bosom, I from thee departed
for that I insinuate, or toaze from thee thy
KING EDWARD IV:
Step forth mine advocate; at your request
PETRUCHIO:
Thou art my warrior;
Fellow, give place; here is no longer stay.
which is a disgrace to them, if they bear it.
Me they shall feel while I am able to stand: and
Uncle, for God's sake, speak comfortable words.
Or let us lose it. We do here pronounce,
But for my daughter Katharina, this I know,
My foot my tutor? Put thy sword up, traitor;
Edward and York; then haply she will weep:
may sigh it off. Send after the duke and appeal to
O sweet Paulina,
To press before thy father to a grave?
In humours like the people of this world,
HENRY BOLINGBROKE:
DUKE OF AUMERLE:
Why, what is Tybalt?
the rejoicing?
Great Albion's queen in former golden days:
Which makes the silver rivers drown their shores,
As 'twere my daughter's eyes: and, to be plain.
a commonweal that do nothing but use their abuses in
That both our powers, with smiling
Tailor, I'll pay thee for thy gown tomorrow:
Second Citizen:
And in the vapour of my glory smother'd.
Death, that hath ta'en her hence to make me wail,
PETRUCHIO:
Upon his own report and I believe it;
And thou art flying to a fresher clime:
you give me touch my palate adversely, I make a
Like softest music to attending ears!
Thy slanders I forgive; and therewithal
First Servingman:
I knew she would.
but what mystery there should be in hanging, if I
Whose frown hath made thee faint and fly ere this!
GLOUCESTER:
Save for the son that she did litter here,
Down, down to hell; and say I sent thee thither:
Was my great father-in-law, renowned Warwick;
To put apart these your attendants, I
Their harness studded all with gold and pearl.
Or breed upon our absence; that may blow
The children live, whose parents thou hast
ARCHBISHOP OF YORK:
But 'twas thy beauty that provoked me.
That led calm Henry, though he were a king,
the palsied intercession of such a decayed dotant as
Here are the beetle brows shall blush for me.
How have you slept, my lord?
What Clarence but a quicksand of deceit?
Is now leased out, I die pronouncing it,
Which now the house of Lancaster usurps,
Thy father slew my father; therefore, die.
Yet put it out, for I would not be seen.
Here on my knee I vow to God above,
Will I set up my everlasting rest,
Whom I encounter'd as the battles join'd.
Stop there, stop there.
Is all the grace I beg.
Thou'rt a tall fellow: hold thee that to drink.
For this alliance may so happy prove,
Who is of Rome worse hated than of you,
Delay leads impotent and snail-paced beggary
Why, how now, Juliet!
Your bounty, virtue, fair humility:
The flower-de-luce being one! O, these I lack,
VINCENTIO:
Shall satisfy your father.
Is't not the tenor of his oracle,
Out of their saddles into the dirt; and thereby
Being but heavy, I will bear the light.
GLOUCESTER:
Half an hour since brought my report.
DUKE VINCENTIO:
I'll give my reasons,
Yea, at all points; and longs to enter in.
Another thing to fall. I not deny,
Base, fearful and despairing Henry!
That which my daughter came to look upon,
Or bid me go into a new-made grave
As I was banish'd, I was banish'd Hereford;
Of a strange fever. Upon his mere request,
No, to the dignity and height of honour
Else would a maiden blush bepaint my cheek
As I am subtle, false and treacherous,
As miserable by the life of thee
Once more, good night, kind lords and gentlemen.
Verona, for a while I take my leave,
BIONDELLO:
Sit down with us: it ill befits thy state
MISTRESS OVERDONE:
As ours by murder, to make him a king!
I will not budge for no man's pleasure, I.
The rabble should have first unroof'd the city,
Nay, faith, I'll see the church o' your back; and
Harp not on that string, madam; that is past.
Good things will strive to dwell with't.
And private in his chamber pens himself,
To name the bigger light, and how the less,
And pardon, father, for I knew not thee!
without it.
Merely, my lord.
that runs lolling up and down to hide his bauble in a hole.
Ah, tutor, look where bloody Clifford comes!
Hast thou, spirit,
And duty bids defend; the other again
Spread thy close curtain, love-performing night,
Look that you take upon you as you should;
To take advantage of the absent time
Was this the face that faced so many follies,
met you at the prison, in the absence of the duke.
Dazzle mine eyes, or do I see three suns?
LORD WILLOUGHBY:
Here: what's the matter?
A plague o' both your houses! I am sped.
Is my poor heart for a kinsman vex'd.
O, when, I say, I look'd on Richard's face,
And make triumphant fires; strew flowers before them:
And never borrow any tear of thee.
BUCKINGHAM:
Second Roman:
Why, 'twas a commandment to command the captain and
Therefore, for God's sake, entertain good comfort,
The stony entrance of this sepulchre?
Or blessed was't we did?
Nay, that you shall not: since you have begun,
How do you now?
In my opinion, ought to be prevented.
pies; mace; dates?--none, that's out of my note;
Younger than she are happy mothers made.
For most it caught me, the celestial habits,
Ah. mocker! that's the dog's name; R is for
thing hereafter.
The world is not thy friend nor the world's law;
Now cheer each other in each other's love
It is supposed, the fair creature died;
But shall you on your knowledge find this way?
Grim-visaged war hath smooth'd his wrinkled front;
Which cannot brook the accent of reproof.
You will be schoolmaster
She is spread of late
But thou shouldst please me better, wouldst thou weep.
Not my deserts, but what I will deserve:
Where's Caius Marcius?
Nor can we lie distinguish'd by our faces
PRINCE EDWARD:
To curb the will of the nobility:
But let me see: is this our foeman's face?
AUTOLYCUS:
How would he look, to see his work so noble
And yet I know not how to get the crown,
would yield us but the superfluity, while it were
How long shall I be patient? ah, how long
Thy head is as fun of quarrels as an egg is full of
Is made my gaoler to attend on me.
Bold, quick, ingenious, forward, capable
strange guest he has here.
QUEEN MARGARET:
First Gentleman:
Both Citizens:
LADY CAPULET:
And make my wars on you: look to't: come on;
Then, masters, look to see a troublous world.
and a dram dead; then recovered again with
This noble isle doth want her proper limbs;
feel, will break the back of man, the heart of monster.
In him there is a hope of government,
And steal immortal blessing from her lips,
But I will watch you from such watching now.
But, so it is, it is not. Was this taken
No remedy, but you will,--give me the office
Which comes to me in name of fault, I must not
And why so, my lord?
Here's another ballad of a fish, that appeared upon
And call him 'madam,' do him obeisance.
If non to bless us and the land withal,
For mischiefs manifold and sorceries terrible
Do even drag me homeward: which to hinder
Would have him wed again.
And make him, naked, foil a man at arms.
Which is not yet perform'd me.
I'll play the orator as well as Nestor,
That I may live to say, The dog is dead!
But now two mirrors of his princely semblance
The extreme dangers and the drops of blood
I will appeach the villain.
Your brother is imprison'd by your means,
And, by all likelihood, some cheer is toward.
SEBASTIAN:
Touch'd you the bastardy of Edward's children?
No yellow in't, lest she suspect, as he does,
Had he been ta'en, we should have heard the news;
DUKE OF AUMERLE:
Well, well, no more.
Why, here's no crab; and therefore look not sour.
Enough of this; I pray thee, hold thy peace.
QUEEN ELIZABETH:
Who's yonder,
The tyrannous and bloody deed is done.
this condition, to be whipped at the high cross
Where we were lodgers at the Pegasus.
Well, well, thou hast a careful father, child;
KING HENRY VI:
Never to woo her no more, but do forswear her,
thee; but being assured none but myself could move
Of damned witchcraft, and that have prevail'd
I have three daughters; the eldest is eleven
Give me Bianca for my patrimony.
Come, vial.
KING RICHARD III:
That I am proud to hunt.
I pray, awake, sir: if you love the maid,
In bolted language; meal and bran together
His glassy essence, like an angry ape,
And venomous to thine eyes. My sometime general,
Are you content to stay?
The midwife wonder'd and the women cried
With mine own tears I wash away my balm,
DUKE OF SURREY:
And speak I will; I am no child, no babe:
Twelve year since, Miranda, twelve year since,
She dances featly.
The proffer'd means of succor and redress.
Summon a session, that we may arraign
HENRY BOLINGBROKE:
Let's step into the shadow of these trees.
I am a woeful suitor to your honour,
It is a rupture that you may easily heal: and the
A city full; of tribunes, such as you,
As if you were a feasted one and not
My liege, I'll knock once more to summon them.
Here come the lords of Buckingham and Derby.
And fearfully did menace me with death,
GLOUCESTER:
We never yet made doubt but Rome was ready
What 'twere to lose it, and be miserable!
And every tongue brings in a several tale,
AUTOLYCUS:
The king by this is set him down to sleep.
Thursday is near; lay hand on heart, advise:
CORIOLANUS:
Sweetly in force unto her fair life's end.
Can from his mother win the Duke of York,
Let us alone to guard Corioli:
Where it fits not you to know.
Of twenty men, it would dispatch you straight.
Of no allowance to your bosom's truth.
Good faith, good faith, the saying did not hold
And the demesnes that there adjacent lie,
Ay, and for an assault too.
Fame, at the which he aims,
Go to my chamber; Put on clothes of mine.
Here where we are.
Before I be convict by course of law,
DUKE VINCENTIO:
Look, and thou shalt see.
Where is this viper
My life thou shalt command, but not my shame:
And, Rivers, so were you. Was not your husband
Deceived in thy integrity, deceived
For thy great bounty, that not only givest
KING LEWIS XI:
First Officer:
I know by that he's dead; and, by my soul,
No, I serve not thy master.
cause between an orange wife and a fosset-seller;
You have told them home;
Hath she had any more than one husband?
Making not reservation of yourselves,
For I have ever verified my friends,
I shall despair. There is no creature loves me;
More than with parting from my lord the king.
Pray now, sit down.
God in heaven bless her!
And a half, sir.
And so once more return and tell his grace.
Indeed, no, by your patience; I'll not over the
best sheep, which I fear the wolf will sooner find
Fie on her! see, how beastly she doth court him!
Is pointing still, in cleansing them from tears.
For fear of that, I still will stay with thee;
Than this is all as true as it is strange:
Uncharitably with me have you dealt,
Shall we call back Northumberland, and send
To County Paris, to prepare him up
To crop at once a too long wither'd flower.
And there they hull, expecting but the aid
What, what? his choler?
What she should shame to know herself
Plantagenet.
A thing like death to chide away this shame,
My heart, sweet boy, shall be thy sepulchre,
I twice five hundred and their friends to piece 'em.
In penalty alike; and 'tis not hard, I think,
This is my fault: as for the rest appeall'd,
How doth he stand affected to our purpose;
Where doth the world thrust forth a vanity--
Than to rejoice the former queen is well?
Third Servingman:
For truth to o'er-peer. Rather than fool it so,
knew the service, and that instructed him to mercy.
Alas! sir, it is worse for me than so;
And so did I:--Well, we were born to die.
I beseech you, sir, ask him what this man did to my wife.
very nothing, and beyond the imagination of his
HENRY BOLINGBROKE:
BIONDELLO:
'He that is giddy thinks the world turns round:'
Doth cloud my joys with danger and with sorrow.
Both field and city ours, he never stood
Not like to me, or any of my kin,
And is this all?
The scepter'd office of your ancestors,
BUCKINGHAM:
For thou shalt know this strong right hand of mine
To meet her new-beloved any where:
Of this new marriage with the Lady Grey?
And who abstains from meat that is not gaunt?
KING RICHARD III:
HENRY BOLINGBROKE:
Second Citizen:
First Huntsman:
'tis a sickness denying thee any thing; a death to
He was your enemy, ever spake against
Which on more view, of many mine being one
Their aunt I am in law, in love their mother:
On yon proud man, should take it off again
Go you to him from me.
Lest over-eyeing of his odd behavior,--
Whether our kinsman come to see his friends.
I do believe it.
'Tis more than you deserve;
Stay, gentle Margaret, and hear me speak.
Give me a case to put my visage in:
This deed unshapes me quite, makes me unpregnant
O, yes, it doth; a thousand-fold it doth.
Therefore, most absolute sir, if thou wilt have
Thou loathed issue of thy father's loins!
'Yea,' quoth my husband,'fall'st upon thy face?
did it to minister occasion to these gentlemen,
Did ever dragon keep so fair a cave?
Whither 'tis bent: most likely 'tis for you:
You lords and heads o' the state, perfidiously
tarry so long. But I would be loath to fall into
Carouse full measure to her maidenhead,
And by the hope I have of heavenly bliss,
He, but a duke, would have his son a king,
Against to-morrow: my heart is wondrous light,
Hang thee, young baggage! disobedient wretch!
Peace be with you!
worn out thy pump, that when the single sole of it
Arise, dissembler: though I wish thy death,
Come, sir, along with us.
What is your will?
That in a twink she won me to her love.
We are accounted poor citizens, the patricians good.
Not fearing outward force, so shall my lungs
Thy wit, that ornament to shape and love,
LORD WILLOUGHBY:
And Roman Lucrece for her chastity:
How fares my noble lord?
Come, we are fellows and friends: he was ever too
Yes, truly; I speak not as desiring more;
Could I repair what she will wear in me,
He seems to be of great authority: close with him,
To say to me that thou art out of breath?
Counsel me, Tranio, for I know thou canst;
Not as protector, steward, substitute,
see a toad, a very toad, as see him. I anger her
He has our voices, sir.
So, here comes a brace.
KING RICHARD III:
She, on his left side, craving aid for Henry,
And Bolingbroke my sorrow's dismal heir:
The other did not so.
And so wast thou, Lord Hastings, when my son
Through all the signories it was the first
Our stern alarums changed to merry meetings,
O, let me clip ye
Hast thou no letters to me from the friar?
Shall I be charged no further than this present?
Thou wast provoked by thy bloody mind.
And may direct his course as please himself,
Say she be mute and will not speak a word;
the desire of the penitent to be so bared before his
That e'er I sigh'd for: pity move my father
Then give me leave to have prerogative;
PETRUCHIO:
Second Gentleman:
True, noble prince.
In sharing that which you have pill'd from me!
Nor tackle, sail, nor mast; the very rats
Consider of it.'
Thy father's court? for thou shalt hear that I,
A lie; you are rough and hairy. Let me have no
He is our cousin, cousin; but 'tis doubt,
AUTOLYCUS:
He must, and will
and to be on foot at an hour's warning.
I' the body of the weal; and now, arriving
Which the rather
O Harry's wife, triumph not in my woes!
Sir, I cannot tell:
And 'tis my hope to end successfully.
What says my brother?
BIONDELLO:
this true?
The peace of England and our persons' safety,
I dream'd a dream to-night.
Madam, I am not well.
Is colder than that theme, 'She had not been,
Lest to thy harm thou move our patience.
You'd be so lean, that blasts of January
question asked him by any of the senators, but they
A bawd, sir? fie upon him! he will discredit our mystery.
Say that I did all this for love of her.
Warwick, although my head still wear the crown,
And thou a kingdom; all of you allegiance:
Thus stands it with me: upon a true contract
And as the air blows it to me again,
KING RICHARD II:
Then, till the fury of his highness settle,
You shall not go: a lady's 'Verily' 's
Lest I revenge. What, myself upon myself?
Then have my lips the sin that they have took.
Spies of the Volsces
I know thee not: thy name?
intelligence, that he is seldom from the house of a
Retorts it: Romeo he cries aloud,
your worships: more of your conversation would
Until my husband bid me.
extempore. The prince himself is about a piece of
Embarquements all of fury, shall lift up
As if this flesh which walls about our life,
As is the spring to the earth. And hath he too
Too ceremonious and traditional
Ay, Edward will use women honourably.
Made him joint-servant with me; gave him way
Be advised.
I thank thee, gentle Percy; and be sure
Account me not your servant.
By a divine instinct men's minds mistrust
What is the jay more precious than the lark,
O mercy, God! what masquing stuff is here?
No, sir: yet oft,
He makes a July's day short as December,
Or shall they last, and we rejoice in them?
Speak, Clifford, dost thou know who speaks to thee?
I am his brother, and I love him well.
DUKE VINCENTIO:
My wife comes foremost; then the honour'd mould
My boy shall fetch the scrivener presently.
To do this deed will hate you for the deed.
O villains, vipers, damn'd without redemption!
Though destiny say no. Be merry, gentle;
All scatter'd in the bottom of the sea:
O my liege,
And long live Henry, fourth of that name!
Pitchers have ears.
slaughter'd,
Hath kept with thy remembrance.
You fight in justice: then, in God's name, lords,
Tell me thy mind; for I have Pisa left
KING HENRY VI:
Which here you come to accuse.
What now remains, my lords, for us to do
No, no, he's gone.
Good morrow to my sovereign king and queen:
Well said, noble woman?
Let that suffice. I have trusted thee, Camillo,
Let them assemble,
Though we have spent our harvest of this king,
And none contented: sometimes am I king;
See how he fares.
Her husband, knave: wouldst thou betray me?
This fellow had a Volscian to his mother;
Lies festering in his shroud; where, as they say,
The selfsame name, but one of better nature.
So full of ugly sights, of ghastly dreams,
will what have we here! Mercy on 's, a barne a very
The ground of your ill-will, and so remove it.
Caius Marcius was
You might have been enough the man you are,
A fellow, sir, that I have known to go about with
Second Murderer:
Save men's opinions and my living blood,
Second Senator:
Hortensio; and I trow this is his house.
Look on her, mark her well; be but about
Not weighing well the end; if ever fearful
KING EDWARD IV:
QUEEN MARGARET:
That, in the working of your own affections,
And, with wild looks, bid me devise some mean
That thou expect'st not nor I look'd not for.
malice, that, giving itself the lie, would pluck
He is in heaven, where thou shalt never come.
I am the drudge and toil in your delight,
Down with that sword! Tribunes, withdraw awhile.
And in this seat of peace tumultuous wars
By law and process of great nature thence
Nor did you think it folly
He's the devil.
Nor cheque my courage for what they can give,
It shall be eased, if France can yield relief.
What, will the aspiring blood of Lancaster
I have great comfort from this fellow: methinks he
They said they were an-hungry; sigh'd forth proverbs,
Upon the hatches: thence we looked toward England,
The sly slow hours shall not determinate
That when the sea was calm all boats alike
To set my brother Clarence and the king
Take up my mistress' gown to his master's use!
Unseemly woman in a seeming man!
As when brave Gaunt, thy father, and myself
as Volscians. They are rising, they are rising.
thankful to thee shall be my study, and my profit
Sirrah, thou art said to have a stubborn soul.
Clear them o' the city. For myself, I'll put
DUKE OF YORK:
Romeo, I come! this do I drink to thee.
Then thou wert best say that I am not Lucentio.
Whom should he follow but his natural king?
BIONDELLO:
I shall not need transport my words by you;
O, stand up blest!
Seize him, AEdiles!
Curster than she? why, 'tis impossible.
Tut, dun's the mouse, the constable's own word:
Upon my life, she finds, although I cannot,
Even or odd, of all days in the year,
Made all of false-faced soothing!
And bid him come to take his last farewell.
First Murderer:
Duck with French nods and apish courtesy,
To-morrow will it please you to be crown'd?
HORTENSIO:
And that he is a bastard, not thy son:
And Anne my wife hath bid the world good night.
Caius Marcius Coriolanus!
That longing have been sick for, ere I'ld yield
Thine intellect? hath he been in thy heart?
Is of a king become a banish'd man,
And we may soon our satisfaction have
Deck'd in thy rights, as thou art stall'd in mine!
Hark you. far off!
GLOUCESTER:
A brittle glory shineth in this face:
So safely ordered that there is no soul--
What if a man bring him a hundred pound or two, to
As I intend more good to you and yours,
And say, 'Lo, there is mad Petruchio's wife,
I' the absence of the needer.
SEBASTIAN:
Clarence, beware; thou keep'st me from the light:
Unto these sorrows.
I departed not and left him there.
Make war with him that climb'd unto their nest,
DUKE OF YORK:
Methought their souls, whose bodies Richard murder'd,
I' the city of kites and crows.
Makes him speak fondly, like a frantic man
What maids lack from head to heel:
And do not say 'tis superstition, that
fortune hath conveyed to my understanding; and, but
The pine and let thee out.
Is it even so? then I defy you, stars!
What devil art thou, that dost torment me thus?
Off with his head, and set it on York gates;
Come, York and Richard, Warwick and the rest;
Indeed, I never shall be satisfied
Most sweet voices!
Would without lapsing suffer: nay, sometimes,
Imprison'd thou didst painfully remain
He hath got his friend with child.
And bid my cousin Ferdinand come hither:
Let's each one send unto his wife;
Go, then; for 'tis in vain
It is my Lord of Berkeley, as I guess.
BIONDELLO:
O, to what purpose dost thou hoard thy words,
My lord, the army of the Duke of Buckingham--
Nay, hated too, worse than the great'st infection
Lament we may, but not revenge thee dead.
The king my uncle is to blame for this:
To him, and to his substitutes.
This is the day wherein I wish'd to fall
Write up his title with usurping blood.
none of Pygmalion's images, newly made woman, to be
What shall I do? say what; what shall I do?
Even to the court, the heart, to the seat o' the brain;
Sweet rest his soul! Fly, lords, and save yourselves;
Second Servant:
Of your own cause. Is this the witness, friar?
this controversy.
If secret powers
This other doth command a little door
3 KING HENRY VI
Lord Marshal:
Gentle and fair, your brother kindly greets you:
DUKE VINCENTIO:
My liege, one word.
I, with blowing the fire, shall warm myself; for,
At all acknowledge. For Polixenes,
Since thou, created to be awed by man,
Three Judases, each one thrice worse than Judas!
ears a fork'd one!
Thus high at least, although your knee be low.
O, but they say the tongues of dying men
Hail, virgin, if you be, as those cheek-roses
LADY CAPULET:
Hourly afflict: merely, thou art death's fool;
Pardon, I pray thee, for my mad mistaking.
DUKE VINCENTIO:
Is put unto the trust of Richard Gloucester,
What's mine is yours and what is yours is mine.
I dare your quenchless fury to more rage:
For your broken shin.
Forspent with toil, as runners with a race,
He does me double wrong
are chosen, they are glad to choose me for them; I
KING EDWARD IV:
most homely shepherd; a man, they say, that from
Here's Lucentio,
Courtsied when you have and kiss'd
For the red blood reigns in the winter's pale.
good Christians ought to have.
That have beheld me give away myself
They that stand high have many blasts to shake them;
By his attorneys-general to sue
And list what with our council we have done.
BIONDELLO:
These three lead on this preparation
I'll make my heaven in a lady's lap,
KATHARINA:
Why, how now, dame! whence grows this insolence?
As I do know the consul's worthiness,
his pencil, and the painter with his nets; but I am
Nor never write, regreet, nor reconcile
First Citizen:
Have you deserved: it is my father's music
A ram, and bleated; and the fire-robed god,
O, may such purple tears be alway shed
Full of rose-water and bestrew'd with flowers,
I should have been more strange, I must confess,
My last good deed was to entreat his stay:
Forbear it therefore; give your cause to heaven.
I married them; and their stol'n marriage-day
That only like a gulf it did remain
Nor bide the encounter of assailing eyes,
And in this thought they find a kind of ease,
Night's candles are burnt out, and jocund day
Hath widow'd and unchilded many a one,
That makes her blood look out: good sooth, she is
At any time, to grace my stratagems.
Here on this molehill will I sit me down.
Becomes more mock'd than fear'd; so our decrees,
Have I had children's voices?
Master, you look'd so longly on the maid,
Yet am I arm'd against the worst can happen;
I'll swear for 'em.
The child-bed privilege denied, which 'longs
This is a strange abuse. Let's see thy face.
I turn my glass and give my scene such growing
GLOUCESTER:
England is safe, if true within itself?
should freelier rejoice in that absence wherein he
And when I have my meed, I must away;
You were conducted to a gentle bath
Thy other Edward dead, to quit my Edward;
What torment I did find thee in; thy groans
And stood against them, as the hope of Troy
First Huntsman:
I must be gone and live, or stay and die.
The waters swell before a boisterous storm.
Tickle the senseless rushes with their heels,
ANTIGONUS:
He loves you, on my life, and holds you dear
And reverend looker on, of two fair queens.
the moon out of her sphere, if she would continue
Is my dear son with such sour company:
We'll measure them a measure, and be gone.
Imagine howling: 'tis too horrible!
LADY ANNE:
thee straight,
And, for the time shall not seem tedious,
Thy words are but as thoughts; therefore, be bold.
Now, by Saint Peter's Church and Peter too,
breaking out.
CORIOLANUS:
burthen and how she longed to eat adders' heads and
Sound trumpet; Edward shall be here proclaim'd:
But in this kind to come, in braving arms,
PETRUCHIO:
yet: suffer us to famish, and their store-houses
QUEEN ELIZABETH:
Teaching stern murder how to butcher thee:
'Thus, thus,' quoth Forrest, 'girdling one another
stand bald before him: our general himself makes a
Or from the all that are took something good,
How far off lie these armies?
KING RICHARD III:
KING EDWARD IV:
Madam, my mother, I do cry you mercy;
Would you enforce me to a world of care?
At Mariana's house to-night. Her cause and yours
Believe not that the dribbling dart of love
And while it is so, none so dry or thirsty
Marry, my uncle Clarence' angry ghost:
Come Lammas-eve at night shall she be fourteen.
ANTIGONUS:
afternoon?
Travelling some journey, to repose him here.
Have sunk the sea within the earth or ere
Whom envy hath immured within your walls!
sword, and then we will chop him in the malmsey-butt
And, with that word, she struck me on the head,
I go. Write to me very shortly.
A choking gall and a preserving sweet.
GLOUCESTER:
We live to tell it you, the subtle traitor
Lead their successes as we wish our own,
That I, forsooth, am stern, and love them not?
Too little payment for so great a debt.
Not better than he, by her own report.
GLOUCESTER:
And most chirurgeonly.
Like an old tale still, which will have matter to
Sweet York, be patient. Hear me, gentle liege.
All souls that will be safe fly from my side,
Fourth Citizen:
That have revolted wives, the tenth of mankind
How long is't since?
To the disgrace and downfall of your house:
The Lord Northumberland, his son young Henry Percy,
While I stand fooling here, his Jack o' the clock.
Signior Baptista may remember me,
Weak men must fall, for heaven still guards the right.
And fearless minds climb soonest unto crowns.
Else would I tear the cave where Echo lies,
Then where you please, and shall be thought most fit
With Rosaline, my ghostly father? no;
Of noisome musty chaff: he said 'twas folly,
My unsoil'd name, the austereness of my life,
QUEEN MARGARET:
Your son, George Stanley: look your faith be firm.
Hold, then; go home, be merry, give consent
So far in blood that sin will pluck on sin:
Now, nurse, what news? What hast thou there? the cords
Hold therefore, Angelo:--
Unarm'd, and unresolved to beat them back:
Courageously and with a free desire
Only in strokes; but, with thy grim looks and
His better doth not breathe upon the earth.
never a worthier man.
Messenger:
come by him where he stands, by ones, by twos, and
True, I talk of dreams,
In weeping after this untimely bier.
More straining on for plucking back, not following
Of our proceedings here: on the marketplace,
BRAKENBURY:
Withdraw yourselves, and leave us here alone.
For Mowbray and myself are like two men
To question of his apprehension.
I'll fill your grave up: stir, nay, come away,
And happily we might be interrupted.
Nay, but speak not maliciously.
Had servants true about me, that bare eyes
To be imprison'd in the viewless winds,
Thou hadst but power over his mortal body,
Woe's scene, world's shame, grave's due by life usurp'd,
We are convented
Did York's dread curse prevail so much with heaven?
That, had he twenty heads to tender down
Call this a lightning? O my love! my wife!
And driven into despair an enemy's hope,
I am angling now,
And on a safer judgment all revoke
And, I beseech you, hear me, who profess
I was provoked by her slanderous tongue,
Though not for Rome itself.
To let him slip at will.
Ay, by my troth, the case may be amended.
Doth it not then our eyelids sink? I find not
Grandam, one night, as we did sit at supper,
Go thou, and fill another room in hell.
The cares I give I have, though given away;
HENRY PERCY:
And be you silent and attentive too,
Encourage him, and show him all our reasons:
All slain, all dead. 'Romeo is banished!'
Say, have I thy consent that they shall die?
But durst not tempt a minister of honour,
But to be frank, and give it thee again.
Thou hast not done before.
Are you at leisure, holy father, now;
I say, sir, I will detest myself also, as well as
Successful fortune, steel thy melting heart
CORIOLANUS:
For that 'Forgive our Romans.' O, a kiss
I will be correspondent to command
And hardening of my brows.
Wash my fierce hand in's heart. Go you to the city;
I would not for the world they saw thee here.
Art thou a man? thy form cries out thou art:
I'll lay fourteen of my teeth,--
No, never such an oath; nor will not now.
He could not miss't.
And turn you all your hatred now on me?
I prithee tell me; cram's with praise, and make's
Give me my boots, I say.
Whose double tongue may with a mortal touch
Thou mayst co-join with something; and thou dost,
Her richest lockram 'bout her reechy neck,
Being a Volsce, be that I am. Condition!
For shame, come down: he made thee Duke of York.
Ere stay behind this business.
QUEEN MARGARET:
I pray you, do not push me; I'll be gone.
Was not Gaunt just, and is not Harry true?
Do, and be witness to 't.
Till Katharina the curst have got a husband.
Not I, my lord.
KING RICHARD III:
O, spare my guiltless wife and my poor children!
Canst thou not speak? O traitors! murderers!
Why, boy, how is it?
About that which concerns your grace and us;
My quarrel and this English queen's are one.
If this inducement force her not to love,
Now, now: I have not winked since I saw these
Come then, away; let's ha' no more ado.
Go waken Juliet, go and trim her up;
AUTOLYCUS:
Who wears my stripes impress'd upon him; that
But so it must be, if the king miscarry.
Wert thou as young as I, Juliet thy love,
How art thou out of breath, when thou hast breath
And stop the rising of blood-sucking sighs,
Our bruised arms hung up for monuments;
For sinking under them.
He does well in 't.
And that the spoil got on the Antiates
I will go wash;
Anon expect him here; but if she be obdurate
And so, my good lord mayor, we bid farewell.
any in Italy, and as soon moved to be moody, and as
Look I so pale, Lord Dorset, as the rest?
Which now, two tender playfellows to dust,
Than other princesses can that have more time
And put thy fortune to the arbitrement
Forthwith that Edward be pronounced a traitor,
That our beat water brought by conduits hither;
Do their best office, if they can but stay you
And Titus Lartius, a most valiant Roman,
He kills her in her own humour.
'Tis no less, I tell you, for the bawdy hand of the
Joy absent, grief is present for that time.
I, measuring his affections by my own,
This is fairy gold, boy, and 'twill prove so: up
Cousin of Buckingham, a word with you.
To execution and the hand of death.
You know your father's temper: at this time
'Tis well, sir, that you hunted for yourself:
And call him noble that was now your hate,
hanging: make the rope of his destiny our cable,
Our enemy is banish'd! he is gone! Hoo! hoo!
And make pursuit where he did mean no chase.
No, Harry, Harry, 'tis no land of thine;
NORTHUMBERLAND:
'Twas from the canon.
Alas for both, both mine, Edward and Clarence!
Will you be put in mind of his blind fortune,
Come, cordial and not poison, go with me
And sails upon the bosom of the air.
To have her match'd: and having now provided
Alas, it hath been great pains to you. They do you
You will think you have made no offence, if the duke
Unless thou rescue him from foul despair?
Thy sun sets weeping in the lowly west,
KING EDWARD IV:
With cozening hope: he is a flatterer,
I would not be a stander-by to hear
Too great for what contains it. Boy! O slave!
As were our England in reversion his,
That they who brought me in my master's hate
Bliss be upon you! Tell me, good my friend,
Search, seek, and know how this foul murder comes.
the silly cheat. Gallows and knock are too powerful
Nay, go not from me; I will follow thee.
And though the edge hath something hit ourselves,
And we their hands.
Let me in safety raise me from my knees
I thank you, honest gentlemen; good night.
Why, is it not news, to hear of Petruchio's coming?
Than ever you or yours were by me wrong'd!
his bidding. He wants nothing of a god but eternity
Or all or lose his hire.
That 'only' came well in. Sir, list to me:
No, gracious lord, except I cannot do it.
Signior Hortensio, 'twixt such friends as we
Stuff'd, as they say, with honourable parts,
I pray you, tell Signior Lucentio that his father is
The crown to thee and to thine heirs for ever;
A wandering vagabond; my rights and royalties
Go, hie thee, hie thee from this slaughter-house,
This, as you say, suggested
Wrath makes him deaf: speak thou, Northumberland.
her recompense: and here, by this, is your brother
youth of the city?
serving-men in their new fustian, their white
Must gently be preserved, cherish'd, and kept:
What, will my daughter prove a good musician?
For even the day before, she broke her brow:
Fully unfold. Thyself and thy belongings
You promised knighthood to our forward son:
DUKE VINCENTIO:
To smile at scapes and perils overblown.
We cannot be here and there too. Cheerly, boys; be
POLIXENES:
After his studies or his usual pain?
There let him sink, and be the seas on him!
Ay, for if Edward repossess the crown,
QUEEN ELIZABETH:
This is a gentle provost: seldom when
lieve be a condemned man.
I'll none of it: hence! make your best of it.
But that his beard grew thin and hungerly
These letters at fit time deliver me
Third Citizen:
First Senator:
First Citizen:
I would there were no age between sixteen and
QUEEN ELIZABETH:
Stood the state so? No, no, good friends, God wot;
though we willingly consented to his banishment, yet
Second Lady:
Well have we pass'd and now repass'd the seas
'Cucullus non facit monachum:' honest in nothing
Where, underneath the grove of sycamore
No man but prophesied revenge for it.
Jacks; and if I cannot, I'll find those that shall.
Or Signior Gremio, you, know any such,
KATHARINA:
And bear his charging of wooing, whatsoe'er.
There wanteth now our brother Gloucester here,
This is strange now: do you two know how you are
That hand shall burn in never-quenching fire
We'll part the time between's then; and in that
My very friend, hath got his mortal hurt
CORIOLANUS:
If not, the city being but of small defence,
Call forth Bagot.
Men's eyes were made to look, and let them gaze;
That dost this habitation, where thou keep'st,
This pretty lad will prove our country's bliss.
To whom God will, there be the victory!
Are near to Warwick by blood and by alliance:
MAMILLIUS:
We must be neat; not neat, but cleanly, captain:
Turns to the sourest and most deadly hate:
hath not my gait in it the measure of the court?
Hark! now I hear them,--Ding-dong, bell.
If they have done this thing, my gracious lord--
My other self, my counsel's consistory,
Or modest Dian circled with her nymphs,
Lies my consent and fair according voice.
VINCENTIO:
Worthy voices!
Come your way, sir. 'Bless you, good father friar.
GLOUCESTER:
Come to redeem me? there's a fearful point!
DUCHESS OF YORK:
The anvil of my sword, and do contest
Murder her brothers, and then marry her!
MAMILLIUS:
The words of heaven; on whom it will, it will;
Or as 'twere perfumed by a fen.
He is our subject, Mowbray; so art thou:
Ay, marry, sir, now it begins to work.
O, sit my husband's wrongs on Hereford's spear,
The flowers fair ladies, and thy steps no more
Who knew of Your intent and coming hither?
In Ross and Willoughby, wanting your company,
Both him and all his brothers unto reason.
And frame your mind to mirth and merriment,
Alack the day, she's dead, she's dead, she's dead!
I am weary; yea, my memory is tired.
Well struck in years, fair, and not jealous;
To-morrow, or next day, they will be here.
What's Montague? it is nor hand, nor foot,
That know not how to use ambassadors,
Displant a town, reverse a prince's doom,
Good Kate; I am a gentleman.
crammed with grain; make edicts for usury, to
Can be but brief; for I have made him know
Two thousand ducats by the year of land!
PETRUCHIO:
Dark cloudy death o'ershades his beams of life,
And heaven's artillery thunder in the skies?
CORIOLANUS:
Yet art thou slain in him: thou dost consent
Then tell me, if I get your daughter's love,
I let forth your half-pint of blood; back,--that's
Second Keeper:
And will, no doubt, shortly be rid of me.
LADY CAPULET:
All pomp and majesty I do forswear;
What, I prithee, might be the cause?
In this which you accuse her.
Of thee, my dear one, thee, my daughter, who
It could not slake mine ire, nor ease my heart.
Nay, he will answer the letter's master, how he
You smell this business with a sense as cold
And with a low submissive reverence
prayers; for, look you, the warrant's come.
And trouble not the peace.
Mark his condition and the event; then tell me
My dismal scene I needs must act alone.
Prepare her, wife, against this wedding-day.
And here is come to do some villanous shame
I am, and by my fancy: if my reason
AUTOLYCUS:
Nay, you shall have no hat.
And show no sign of fear.
Yes, as I love the woman that wrong'd him.
Would he were wasted, marrow, bones and all,
Lives not to act another. Be satisfied;
I'll win our ancient right in France again,
Now, sir, to you.
Messenger:
Produce the prisoner.
Being criminal, in double violation
To cleave a heart in twain.
Petruchio, stand by a while.
Thou draw not on thy danger and dishonour;
Where lies he?
Ay, and he'll tame her.
Gloucester;
Of sacred chastity and of promise-breach
To help King Edward in his time of storm,
Was Tybalt's dooms-day, whose untimely death
This sudden stag of rancour I misdoubt:
His face thou hast, for even so look'd he,
From such a cause as fills mine eyes with tears
Age, thou hast lost thy labour.
I will not reason what is meant hereby,
First Musician:
GLOUCESTER:
What were you snarling all before I came,
What seal is that, that hangs without thy bosom?
Or, if you show your face, you must not speak.
Since I am crept in favour with myself,
And the most merciless that e'er was heard of!
In winter's tedious nights sit by the fire
Stabb'd in my angry mood at Tewksbury?
Next to thyself and my young rover, he's
Brother of Gloucester, you mistake the matter.
What, do you tremble? are you all afraid?
Cold death aside, and with the other sends
But, more of thy news?
I must needs wake her. Madam, madam, madam!
Is she a Capulet?
May your grace speak of it?
I had thought, sir, to have held my peace until
so great, Hortensio, but we may blow our nails
His honour and myself are at the one,
Whom for this time we pardon. We enjoin thee,
Where 'tis predominant; and 'tis powerful, think it,
To buy and sell with groats, to show bare heads
As are the swelling Adriatic seas:
What answer shall I make to this base man?
Leads discontented steps in foreign soil,
DUKE VINCENTIO:
not? come, tell me true: it shall be the better for you.
Than all thy woes can stir; therefore betake thee
GLOUCESTER:
My gracious sovereign, now in Devonshire,
Merely in hate, 'gainst any of us all,
Thy grief is but thy absence for a time.
Inestimable stones, unvalued jewels,
Thou show'st a noble vessel: what's thy name?
do it for some piece of money, and go through with
Now, by the world, it is a lusty wench;
And thrice cried 'Courage, father! fight it out!'
Henceforward do your messages yourself.
He--to give fear to use and liberty,
With other muniments and petty helps
More than your lord's departure weep not: more's not seen;
Six years we banish him, and he shall go.
To pluck away their power, as now at last
Sir, induced by my charity, and hearing how hastily
Ere yet the fight be done, pack up: down with them!
And pity 'tis you lived at odds so long.
KING EDWARD IV:
NORTHUMBERLAND:
Follow your function, go, and batten on cold bits.
NATHANIEL:
Richard of Bordeaux, by me hither brought.
But one, the wicked'st caitiff on the ground,
Whose unavoided eye is murderous.
What says the other troop?
love a ballad but even too well, if it be doleful
Will it not be?
Cambio is changed into Lucentio.
To make her heavenly comforts of despair,
Tim Richard wear the garland of the realm.
Then our office may,
Hence, rotten thing! or I shall shake thy bones
Darest with thy frozen admonition
God-a-mercy, Grumio! then he shall have no odds.
This will I do, and this I will advise you:
I think no less. Good morrow to your lordship.
Knock there, and ask your heart what it doth know
Open Thy gate of mercy, gracious God!
She is my goods, my chattels; she is my house,
Adversity's sweet milk, philosophy,
But, master mayor, if Henry be your king,
If he may be repeal'd, to try his honour.
milliner can so fit his customers with gloves: he
Well, say there is no kingdom then for Richard;
Good aunt, stand up.
MAMILLIUS:
To this their late escape.
That, like the sun, did make beholders wink?
My lord, will't please you to fall to?
No, for then we should be colliers.
GLOUCESTER:
Villain, thy own hand yields thy death's instrument.
Why, may one ask?
KATHARINA:
QUEEN ELIZABETH:
Besides, old Gremio is hearkening still;
Master of this design, did give us, with
Is this Menenius?
man for coughing in the street, because he hath
Do't! he will do't; for, look you, sir, he has as
I lay me down a little while to breathe;
Why that way?
Nay then, I will not: you shall have the mustard,
Should I, in these my borrow'd flaunts, behold
Second Servant:
Till one can do no more.
Take this of me, Kate of my consolation;
Fear not thou, man, thou shalt lose nothing here.
Ere you can say 'she's honest:' but be 't known,
Awaked the sleeping rheum, and so by chance
And then run mad indeed, stark mad! for all
here,--this, who, like a block, hath denied my
Therefore let him be consul: the gods give him joy,
Whence are you, sir? what may I call your name?
O Phoebus, hadst thou never given consent
Thy friends are fled to wait upon thy foes,
Ah, froward Clarence! how evil it beseems thee
Did I not bid thee meet me in the park,
Fear not our care, sir.
He's coming.
Breaking his oath and resolution like
First hand me: on mine own accord I'll off;
Grown fear'd and tedious; yea, my gravity,
Follow me.
And I but dream'd it. As you were past all shame,--
have missingly noted, he is of late much retired
Be shrived and married. Here is for thy pains.
And an old hare hoar,
Put the wild waters in this roar, allay them.
Within these three hours, Tullus,
To bury mine intents, but also to effect
Writ in remembrance more than things long past:
Ay, sir, by Mistress Overdone's means: but as she
Believe't not lightly--though I go alone,
KING HENRY VI:
Masters o' the people,
'Tis well; and I have met a gentleman
I am your butt, and I abide your shot.
If he arise, be mock'd and wonder'd at.
open thy affair.
And burns me up with flames that tears would quench.
yet it is necessary. An old sheep-whistling rogue a
penitent, as thou callest him, and reconciled king,
Against thy majesty; boys, with women's voices,
Till Norfolk be repeal'd: repeal'd he shall be,
Doth set my pugging tooth on edge;
My lord should to the heavens be contrary,
Edward, kneel down.
That tips with silver all these fruit-tree tops--
Thyself upon thy virtues, they on thee.
If she had not a spirit to resist.
And so deep sticks it in my penitent heart
Take't; 'tis yours. What is't?
Whilst I propose the selfsame words to thee,
And half our sailors swallow'd in the flood?
England hath long been mad, and scarr'd herself;
DUKE VINCENTIO:
As you feel doing thus; and see withal
Second Murderer:
This is she--
EARL OF SALISBURY:
Second Senator:
Wept like two children in their deaths' sad stories.
But how long fairly shall her sweet lie last?
As Kate this chamber with her princely gait?
These poor informal women are no more
With this, we charged again: but, out, alas!
Her only fault, and that is faults enough,
the truth, I had as lief have the foppery of freedom
But let my trial be mine own confession:
O thou well skill'd in curses, stay awhile,
What, will you go unto the Tower, my lord?
HORTENSIO:
A' has a little gall'd me, I confess;
I call'd thee then poor shadow, painted queen;
By this I challenge him to single fight.
Yet nature is made better by no mean
I will unfold some causes of your deaths.
BIONDELLO:
To save the innocent: any thing possible.
Who, I, my lord I we know each other's faces,
Sir, it is;
Is, that by sudden floods and fall of waters,
I have deliver'd to Lord Angelo,
place call upon me; and dispatch with Angelo, that
Making the mother, wife and child to see
What, canst not rule her?
It would control my dam's god, Setebos,
But, since it serves my purpose, I will venture
I am their fathers mother; I will see them.
HORTENSIO:
First Senator:
Sir, I will tell you;
Lest thou a feverous life shouldst entertain,
Stay, the king hath thrown his warder down.
And leave me but the bran.' What say you to't?
Have done thy charm, thou hateful wither'd hag!
POLIXENES:
And so farewell, Signior Lucentio.
PETRUCHIO:
do his worst. For you, be that you are, long; and
And for we think the eagle-winged pride
DUKE VINCENTIO:
talk we of these traitorly rascals, whose miseries
His agile arm beats down their fatal points,
If this right hand would buy two hour's life,
It is the quality o' the climate.
It is but needful:
It shall be done, my sovereign, with all speed.
O'erthrows thy joys, friends, fortune and thy state:
Even then will rush to knowledge. Go: fresh horses!
Noble Menenius,
What mean these masterless and gory swords
accept his service.
In that good path that I would wish it go,
My dagger, little cousin? with all my heart.
No; for he could not so resign his crown
We have not yet set down this day of triumph.
Throw down, my son, the Duke of Norfolk's gage.
Which breathed this poison.
I pray, you, tell me, hath any body inquired
Yet hasty marriage seldom proveth well.
O this woodcock, what an ass it is!
And he nor sees nor hears us what we say.
The book of his good acts, whence men have read
But by thy help to this distressed queen?
reports; but the best is, he lives not in them.
DUKE VINCENTIO:
Why will you mew her up,
To speak so indirectly I am loath:
Had not an ear to hear my true time broke.
son and scared my choughs from the chaff, I had not
Nor get a messenger to bring it thee,
Have we march'd on without impediment;
KING EDWARD IV:
Mercutio's kinsman, noble County Paris!
Ay, or very falsely pocket up his report
Your horror's pardon:
Why would he for the momentary trick
Then, Angelo, thy fault's thus manifested;
And shows good husbandry for the Volscian state,
DUKE VINCENTIO:
Where, he shall see, the boar will use us kindly.
You pay a great deal too dear for what's given freely.
Where you may have such vantage on the duke,
The Earl of Warwick and the duke enforced me.
She the adulteress; for the harlot king
First Senator:
Fear'd by their breed and famous by their birth,
Hath that poor monarch taught thee to insult?
By heavens, the duke shall know how slack thou art!
And yet to charge thy sulphur with a bolt
What should the people do with these bald tribunes?
Unless his noble mother, and his wife;
Run to my study. By and by! God's will,
Then treasons make me wish myself a beggar,
You seem'd of late to make the law a tyrant;
This cloth thou dip'dst in blood of my sweet boy,
Well, go with me and be not so discomfited:
Starve-lackey the rapier and dagger man, and young
That at her hands which the king's King forbids.
We were not born to sue, but to command;
Which runs himself and catches for his master.
And then I'll set upon him.
For my authority bears of a credent bulk,
I talk not of your soul: our compell'd sins
Boatswain:
I may be negligent, foolish and fearful;
The flower of Europe for his chivalry;
Because we ever have been near the king.
could turn your eyes toward the napes of your necks,
No, not a whit: what! I have watch'd ere now
That he, our hope, might have retired his power,
Blue, my lord.
A title for a maid of all titles the worst.
Affliction alters.
HENRY BOLINGBROKE:
And in the breath of bitter words let's smother
Thither must I, and here I leave you, sir.
That I must yield my body to the earth
Thy wit is a very bitter sweeting; it is a most
He's right noble:
Why, he is so made on here within, as if he were son
That may be must be, love, on Thursday next.
I learnt it out of women's faces. Pray now
Go, get you home, you fragments!
Harp not on that, nor do not banish reason
My lords of England, let me tell you this:
As I, thus wrong'd, hence unbelieved go!
Who makest a show but darest not strike, thy conscience
All that which Henry Fifth had gotten?
I know not, an't like you.
of that fardel, the place of your dwelling, your
First Murderer:
Of thy adverse pernicious enemy:
First Murderer:
For the benefit of silence, would thou wert so too!
Give me that hand of yours to kiss.
Still blush, as thinking their own kisses sin;
'Tis fond to wail inevitable strokes,
But seek revenge on Edward's mockery.
Shall lose the royalty of England's throne.
Bereft and gelded of his patrimony.
The consul Coriolanus.
That unsubstantial death is amorous,
Mistress Elbow, being, as I say, with child, and
Look, sir, your mother!
Which makes thee thus presumptuous and proud,
silence, and work the peace of the present, we will
CORIOLANUS:
No, no, men living flatter those that die.
Cheated of feature by dissembling nature,
A care-crazed mother of a many children,
And much effuse of blood doth make me faint.
DUKE VINCENTIO:
Or, if I live, is it not very like,
We pray with heart and soul and all beside:
and then rejourn the controversy of three pence to a
Incapable and shallow innocents,
On purpose trimm'd up for Semiramis.
Ha, banishment! be merciful, say 'death;'
Abides in me; I say amen to all.
What else?
And thus I'll curb her mad and headstrong humour.
Pretty too! What say you, James Soundpost?
'I would he had'! 'Twas you incensed the rabble:
To where you are bound, you must inquire your way,
And be not fix'd in doom perpetual,
Which with such gentle sorrow he shook off,
For trust not him that hath once broken faith,--
The Earl of Wiltshire hath the realm in farm.
For I can here disarm thee with this stick
A husband! a devil.
That thou consent to marry us to-day.
many of us: that we did, we did for the best; and
Please you dismiss me either with 'ay' or 'no.'
bewitchment of some popular man and give it
not tainted! And why meet him at the gates, and
Took pains to make thee speak, taught thee each hour
What is his name?
O, I am press'd to death through want of speaking!
son? Kings are no less unhappy, their issue not
Here's he that would take from you all your power.
That bate and beat and will not be obedient.
but my head and my neck. A fire good Curtis.
'Tis since the earthquake now eleven years;
An't please your honour, players
That with your strange encounter much amazed me,
and sowl the porter of Rome gates by the ears: he
That you shall rest but little. God forgive me,
To breathe such vows as lovers use to swear;
No, I can better play the orator.
With old odd ends stolen out of holy writ;
First Servingman:
Insolent villain!
For that I was his father Edward's son;
Now, afore God, I am so vexed, that every part about
PETRUCHIO:
By mingling them with us, the honour'd number,
Who should succeed the father but the son?
good voice, sir; what say you?
Tut, fear not me.
Nay. but his taunts.
The bloody office of his timeless end.
How, Camillo,
Patience, I pray you; 'twas a fault unwilling.
and weighty.
No, I'll not go: you hear what he hath said
But you have all the vantage of her wrong.
The swelling difference of your settled hate:
BUCKINGHAM:
no, not for dwelling where you do: if I do, Pompey,
Where chance may nurse or end it. Take it up.
He shall espouse Elizabeth her daughter.
VINCENTIO:
Women! Help Heaven! men their creation mar
Like a good parent, did beget of him
BUCKINGHAM:
Had you such leisure in the time of death
They should not laugh if I could reach them, nor
Thou wretch, despite o'erwhelm thee!
As you were fore-advised, had touch'd his spirit
Meantime, have patience.
O gentle villain, do not turn away!
DUCHESS OF YORK:
Thou and thy brother both shall buy this treason
LADY ANNE:
Second Murderer:
I have no joy of this contract to-night:
I nursed her daughter, that you talk'd withal;
While you are thus employ'd, what resteth more,
That do distribute it; in the name o' the people
In all his dressings, characts, titles, forms,
Good pilgrim, you do wrong your hand too much,
Though this be all, do not so quickly go;
That hath received an alms! I will not do't,
Hark! the trumpets.
He slily stole away and left his men:
And thither bear your treasure and your goods.
I hold my life as dear as you do yours;
A little fire is quickly trodden out;
By all their influences, you may as well
Methinks I see him stamp thus, and call thus:
Therefore delay not, give thy hand to Warwick;
That England, that was wont to conquer others,
Whose heir my father was, and I am his.
Being tasted, slays all senses with the heart.
And call us wretches, orphans, castaways
One who, to put thee from thy heaviness,
Ay, if yourself's remembrance wrong yourself.
Which you do live upon; and fit it is,
He shall, sure on't.
My lord and sovereign, and thy vowed friend,
March on, march on, since we are up in arms;
Whereto I have invited many a guest,
Or thou goest to the orange or mill.
DUCHESS OF YORK:
Bushy and Green, I will not vex your souls--
We cannot weigh our brother with ourself:
begged. I have your alms: adieu.
Any man that can write may answer a letter.
Sir, pardon me in what I have to say:
To say 'Beseech you, cease.' You have made fair hands,
The people's magistrates.
Rumour it abroad
My poverty, but not my will, consents.
ANTIGONUS:
With slow but stately pace kept on his course,
Go, sirrah, trudge about
BISHOP OF CARLISLE:
Will the time serve to tell? I do not think.
And this shall free thee from this present shame;
For Gloucester's dukedom is too ominous.
Carnally, she says.
Twice treble shame on Angelo,
DUKE VINCENTIO:
Revolts from true birth, stumbling on abuse:
Had she affections and warm youthful blood,
But hear you.
HENRY BOLINGBROKE:
HORTENSIO:
To suffer lawful censure for such faults
May show her duty and make known her love?'
Is not this well? Come, my sweet Kate:
Now my sworn friend and then mine enemy,
DUKE OF AUMERLE:
For on my heart they tread now whilst I live;
This is the rascal; this is he I spoke of.
You adopt your policy, how is it less or worse,
Heaven cease this idle humour in your honour!
Twenty crowns.
That cries 'Retire,' if Warwick bid him stay.
Softly and swiftly, sir; for the priest is ready.
I vow by heaven these eyes shall never close.
The phrase is to the matter.
O my dear lord,
Bid him not fear the separated councils
So please you, this friar hath been with him, and
GLOUCESTER:
CORIOLANUS:
My surname, Coriolanus: the painful service,
See, they have shut him in.
Why, foolish boy, the king is left behind,
I hear some noise. Lady, come from that nest
We may digest our complots in some form.
I' the name of me--
Which is his house, beseech you?
duke had crotchets in him. He would be drunk too;
The traitor lives, the true man's put to death.
I can bear my part; you must know 'tis my
Is there no remedy?
By flatterers; and what they will inform,
Is love a tender thing? it is too rough,
Let me hear you speak farther. I have spirit to do
And now, dear maid, be you as free to us.
Thou wouldst have poison'd good Camillo's honour,
Within three hours will fair Juliet wake:
And this the hand that slew thy brother Rutland;
you will take it on you to assist him, it shall
None else of name and noble estimate.
Than you to punish.
You knew my father well, and in him me,
What men of name are slain on either side?
Thou wrong'st it, more than tears, with that report.
'Tis I that made thy widows: many an heir
Than bees that made 'em.
'Con tutto il cuore, ben trovato,' may I say.
The young'st and oldest thing.
And by the honourable tomb he swears,
had rather it would please you I might be whipt.
QUEEN MARGARET:
By the woman's means?
Ay, wherefore else guard we his royal tent,
To have a giant's strength; but it is tyrannous
Be pilot to me and thy places shall
Go, sirrah, take them to the buttery,
And better 'twere that both of us did fast,
It shall not neither. You, sir, come you hither;
Which in the time of death he gave our father.
But what is like me formerly.
Had we no quarrel else to Rome, but that
of no better report than a horse-drench. Is he
Served well for Rome,--
Sorrow and grief of heart
And here I'll fling the pillow, there the bolster,
Woe the while!
That's thousand to one good one--when you now see
Hence! hang not on my garments.
Marry, I will, let them play it. Is not a
Third Servingman:
The head of Ragozine for Claudio's:
I beseech your grace to pardon me, and withal
PETRUCHIO:
I will, my lord: God give your grace good rest!
QUEEN ELIZABETH:
GLOUCESTER:
When weeping made you break the story off,
HORTENSIO:
By throwing it on any other object
The wars for my money. I hope to see Romans as cheap
beguile the old pantaloon.
First Gentleman:
To see alike mine honour as their profits,
And bad'st me bury love.
GLOUCESTER:
Sir, my mistress sends you word
LORD FITZWATER:
'Tis in my head to do my master good:
His answer was, the people were not wont
And sent according to command; whiles I
For doting, not for loving, pupil mine.
Upon my head and all this famous land.
Down with the topmast! yare! lower, lower! Bring
In truth, la, go with me; and I'll tell you
And, as he stoop'd again to take it up,
Your knees to me? to your corrected son?
Yet look to have them buzz to offend thine ears.
DUKE VINCENTIO:
KING EDWARD IV:
Clarence still breathes; Edward still lives and reigns:
Even for the loss of thee, having no more,
And saving those that eye thee!
pretending in her discoveries of dishonour: in few,
Gentlemen, God save you. If I may be bold,
To murder, murder our solemnity?
For him, I partly know his mind--to find thee
Well, sir.
of losing.
Ay; or else 'twere hard luck, being in so
And that may be determined at the one
Spare not for the cost.
Ay, now begins a second storm to rise;
Dost thou desire her foully for those things
Were he the veriest antic in the world.
Mean time let this defend my loyalty,
To stain the temper of my knightly sword.
KING RICHARD III:
Cheer'd up the drooping army; and himself,
Happy return be to your royal grace!
for conscience sake, to help to get thee a wife.
Marshal, ask yonder knight in arms,
bridegroom wants
HORTENSIO:
Or live in peace abandon'd and despised!
As many vouched rarities are.
By heaven, I will not do thee so much ease.
What is't your highness' pleasure I shall do at
With all their powerful friends, are fled to him.
Neither, my lord.
First Murderer:
The people do admit you, and are summon'd
Yes, one place else, if you will hear me name it.
Which you are out of, with a gentler spirit,
Than empty tigers or the roaring sea.
'Thou shalt not steal'?
Which God defend a knight should violate!--
A proper stripling and an amorous!
Fridays. He's not past it yet, and I say to thee,
LADY CAPULET:
Lo, this is all:--nay, yet depart not so;
3 KING HENRY VI
Softly, my masters! if you be gentlemen,
Will you be ready? do you like this haste?
That will say anything but were they false
To swear him in the justice of his cause.
Go ask his name: if he be married.
On him so near us? This needs must be a practise.
The lords at Pomfret, when they rode from London,
Out of thy garments.
There spake my brother; there my father's grave
Is thy name Tyrrel?
Like one that means his proper harm, in manacles,
She's otherwise, I'll keep my stables where
For my lads to give their dears:
Where sits deformity to mock my body;
Press me not, beseech you, so.
What, in my sight? Bianca, get thee in.
LADY GREY:
I would he had.
From which we would not have you warp. Call hither,
Follow me close, for I will speak to them.
Ay, my good lord.
The king reposeth all his confidence in thee.
I'll speak of her no more, nor of your children;
To free King Henry from imprisonment
If you advise it.
Think you 'twere prejudicial to his crown?
I make a broken delivery of the business; but the
Do not omit the heavy offer of it:
Should notwithstanding join our lights together
Therefore your best appointment make with speed;
'Remember now my brother.'
Carry his honours even: whether 'twas pride,
Long mayst thou live to wail thy children's loss;
You shall find me apt enough to that, sir, an you
nothing still.
This, and Saint George to boot! What think'st thou, Norfolk?
But, for his purpose in the coronation.
Resolved for flight. Now were I happy, if
In carrion-flies than Romeo: they my seize
'Twas my inheritance, as the earldom was.
So, the good horse is mine.
Through lovers' brains, and then they dream of love;
QUEEN MARGARET:
THOMAS MOWBRAY:
More hath he spent in peace than they in wars.
No, good-faced sir; no, sweet sir.
Lead on to some foul issue: we all kneel.
That's I, an't like your grace:
Stoop with oppression of their prodigal weight:
Have done! for shame, if not for charity.
CORIOLANUS:
For, knowing thee to be but young and light--
First Citizen:
So then it seems your most offenceful act
The tender love I bear your grace, my lord,
I am glad to see your ladyship.
And yet no further than a wanton's bird;
Ay, Marcius, Caius Marcius: dost thou think
Almost at point to enter.
Away with him!
You were pretty lordings then?
The common people by numbers swarm to us.
Of that proud man that did usurp his back?
Nine changes of the watery star hath been
Like men born to renown by life or death.
As glorious to this night, being o'er my head
The noble knot he made.
'Though all at once cannot
For which the people stir: if you will pass
That to my foes this body must be prey,
Commit the war of white and damask in
Suggest but truth to my divining thoughts,
DUKE VINCENTIO:
Therefore, at your vantage,
Lovers can see to do their amorous rites
KING EDWARD IV:
Is too much for a score,
How should he be made, then?
Like to his father's greatness: his approach,
'True is it, my incorporate friends,' quoth he,
La you now, you hear:
Come, muster men: my counsel is my shield;
By living low, where fortune cannot hurt me,
From my Redeemer to redeem me hence;
That had befall'n us. As we paced along
ANTIGONUS:
Second Servingman:
Your highness told me I should post before.
Within their innocent alabaster arms:
Exposed this paragon to the fearful usage,
I have bethought me of another fault.
My gracious lord, here in the parliament
Content, content.
That we were all, as some would seem to be,
And spit it bleeding in his high disgrace,
3 KING HENRY VI
Hang all the husbands
ballad against the hard hearts of maids: it was
Throng to the bar, crying all, Guilty! guilty!
Who goes there?
Where every horse bears his commanding rein,
These wars determine: if I cannot persuade thee
O Kate, content thee; prithee, be not angry.
First Murderer:
mio Petruchio.' Rise, Grumio, rise: we will compound
To wail the dimming of our shining star;
to be aged in any kind of course, as it is virtuous
Nay, but hear me.
HORTENSIO:
For being more stone than it? O royal piece,
And hold you ever to our special drift;
And their true sovereign, whom they must obey?
To me can life be no commodity:
Look you, she loved her kinsman Tybalt dearly,
For I am rough and woo not like a babe.
But Romeo may not: more validity,
are old men: tell me one thing that I shall ask you.
Why ask I that? my mangled body shows,
Not step o'er the bounds of modesty.
Showing, as in a model, our firm estate,
CORIOLANUS:
Or never be so noble as a consul,
Apothecary:
Since thou hast far to go, bear not along
My noble masters, hear me speak.
DUKE OF YORK:
You may not pass, you must return: our general
Second Citizen:
tell you you have good faces. If you see this in
GLOUCESTER:
That late broke from the Duke of Exeter,
Welcome, brave Warwick! What brings thee to France?
To make the perfect period of this peace.
Brought up as best becomes a gentlewoman:
While she chats him: the kitchen malkin pins
As wicked dew as e'er my mother brush'd
That face of his the hungry cannibals
Lord Mayor:
Before I have a husband for the elder:
To prove him tyrant this reason may suffice,
Lord Marshal:
Show thy descent by gazing 'gainst the sun:
Sweet madam.
To prove him, in defending of myself,
VINCENTIO:
Under the colour of his usual game,
Third Watchman:
Lucentio, 'hic est,' son unto Vincentio of Pisa,
That gallant spirit hath aspired the clouds,
Under the canopy!
You did mistake.
And threat the glory of my precious crown.
Against us brats, with no less confidence
To save at least the heir of Edward's right:
Thy brat hath been cast out, like to itself,
Most noble sir,
She may more suitors have and me for one.
Shall play the umpire, arbitrating that
the insinuating nod and be off to them most
Marry, they say my uncle grew so fast
And that you come to reprehend my ignorance.
Bring forth the gallant, let us hear him speak.
Peace, foolish woman.
I dare not stand by; nor shall you be safer
And added years to his short banishment,
Whom son I dare not call; thou art too base
PRINCE EDWARD:
Did ever Dian so become a grove
wenches' song, that he would not stir his pettitoes
For testimony whereof, one in the prison,
FRIAR THOMAS:
To supper; to our house.
How prettily the young swain seems to wash
But graciously to know I am no better.
This interchange of love, I here protest,
LADY ANNE:
In all my lands and leases whatsoever:
Hold him in safety, till the prince come hither.
Second Murderer:
Resolved. resolved.
That goes not out to prey. Now, as fond fathers,
Yielded the town: he is retired to Antium.
Lord, Lord! methought, what pain it was to drown!
Help, masters, help! my master is mad.
Virtuous and fair, royal and gracious.
Yet witness what you hear we did intend:
GLOUCESTER:
Myself have often heard him say and swear
The envious slanders of her false accusers;
I hear some noise within; dear love, adieu!
Thinking on them, go I unto the Tower.
What you command, that rests in me to do.
Second Citizen:
POLIXENES:
Certainly, sir, I can.
Come, now towards Chertsey with your holy load,
I will follow you.
I have done. Come, you promised me a tawdry-lace
The innocent milk in its most innocent mouth,
If she be mad,--as I believe no other,--
And downright languish'd. Leave me solely: go,
Could you not have told him
My words would bandy her to my sweet love,
Is worth of consuls, senators, patricians,
Meantime, God grants that we have need of you:
Tybalt, you rat-catcher, will you walk?
By how much the estate is green and yet ungovern'd:
DUKE OF AUMERLE:
I will not peace. What is the matter, Aumerle.
Lest parties, as he is beloved, break out,
is writ. Look, the unfolding star calls up the
The news is very fair and good, my lord:
Our prayers to the gods, which is a comfort
KING EDWARD IV:
By Caius Marcius Coriolanus, whom
And you my good lords, both have well proceeded,
Jesu, what haste? can you not stay awhile?
God pardon them that are the cause of it!
Rude ragged nurse, old sullen playfellow
That stands upon your royal grandsire's bones,
Come, you are a tedious fool: to the purpose. What
Whiles Warwick tells his title, smooths the wrong,
Graze where you will you shall not house with me:
Madam, have comfort: all of us have cause
Though Fortune, visible an enemy,
Answer no more, for thou shalt be my queen.
How shall we do for money for these wars?
No, to White-Friars; there attend my coining.
And good supporters are you.
SIR STEPHEN SCROOP:
As in a soul remembering my good friends;
I cannot say 'tis pity
Look, sir.
The old cock.
Like a bold flood o'er-bear. O, come, go in,
pricking it for pity. Come, you shall go with us.
Let them want nothing that my house affords.
The noble house o' the Marcians, from whence came
Which live like venom where no venom else
Perfume for a lady's chamber;
Wave thus, to express his disposition,
If either of you both love Katharina,
And with our fair entreaties haste them on.
A vessel under sail, so men obey'd
And but thou love me, let them find me here:
And rather than it shall, I will be free
As I do think, to-morrow.
hot, my very lips might freeze to my teeth, my
Be patient, for the world is broad and wide.
That spoil'd your summer fields and fruitful vines,
Where did I leave?
He shall be endured:
To lock it in the wards of covert bosom,
KATHARINA:
her horse stumbled, how she waded through the dirt
That she's the chosen of Signior Hortensio.
The day serves well for them now. I have heard it
AUTOLYCUS:
Third Citizen:
QUEEN ELIZABETH:
Worthy man!
The gods assist you!
truly I think if all our wits were to issue out of
Prove violence; in the which three great ones suffer,
boy, the next way home.
This prince hath neither claim'd it nor deserved it;
Good morrow, father.
Me rather had my heart might feel your love
sent thee thither. For debt, Pompey? or how?
Where he abides.
Why, therefore fire; for I have caught extreme cold.
DUCHESS OF YORK:
Divides one thing entire to many objects;
Show a fair presence and put off these frowns,
Pray you, go to him.
And with a silk thread plucks it back again,
know the king is full of grief.
So and no other, as yourself commanded:
Musicians, O, musicians, 'Heart's ease, Heart's
To excel the golden age.
he'll be made an example.
I tell you, sir, she bears me fair in hand.
My words disbench'd you not.
And must we be divided? must we part?
O, ye're well met: the hoarded plague o' the gods
The most arch of piteous massacre
Second Servingman:
First were we sad, fearing you would not come;
Poor Clifford! how I scorn his worthless threats!
May show like all yourself.
Were then but subjects; being now a subject,
The pendent world; or to be worse than worst
great traveller, and wild Half-can that stabbed
How now! is he dead already? or is it fear
But, sir, here comes your boy;
As all comforts are; most good, most good indeed.
KATHARINA:
Like a poor prisoner in his twisted gyves,
Then, executioner, unsheathe thy sword:
For still 'tis beating in my mind, your reason
I see a woman may be made a fool,
Not able to produce more accusation
And watch withal; for, but I be deceived,
They are worn, lord consul, so,
In every one of these no man is free,
That ever I should live to see thee dead!
The purity and whiteness of my sheets,
Ay me! what news? why dost thou wring thy hands?
As if that name,
You are i' the right, sir: 'tis for my mistress.
And therefore is he idle?
As you have ever been my father's honour'd friend,
Beggars, that come unto my father's door,
Not one amongst us, save yourself, but says
shall do it.
Sir, what are you that offer to beat my servant?
His tyranny for trifles; his own bastardy,
Swear his thought over
Like very sanctity, she did approach
Let me embrace with old Vincentio,
A twist of rotten silk, never admitting
See how the morning opes her golden gates,
LORD WILLOUGHBY:
Whose deadly web ensnareth thee about?
First Murderer:
Say, has our general met the enemy?
DUKE VINCENTIO:
Shall wound my honour with such feeble wrong,
To an impatient child that hath new robes
Away! I say; commend me to thy master.
Till he had forged himself a name o' the fire
You urged me as a judge; but I had rather
Thou rascal, that art worst in blood to run,
well endeavours to trust to himself and to live
The castle royally is mann'd, my lord,
And yet I would it were to give again.
For by my scouts I was advertised
Some of those branches by the Destinies cut;
As to set dogs on sheep--will be his fire
As are of better person than myself,
Or else beshrew them both.
Thou art the first knave that e'er madest a duke.
Thou, it seems, that calls for company to
would think a smock were a she-angel, he so chants
Be not you spoke with, but by mighty suit:
O mother, mother!
duke: you know the character, I doubt not; and the
Than can my care-tuned tongue deliver him!
I'll do thee service for so good a gift.
From Dis's waggon! daffodils,
habit, but your words show you a madman. Why, sir,
This mould of Marcius, they to dust should grind it
Which serves as paste and cover to our bones.
For there, they say, he daily doth frequent,
When King Cophetua loved the beggar-maid!
sun looking with a southward eye upon him, where he
But stop no wrinkle in his pilgrimage;
As willingly as e'er I came from school.
DUCHESS OF YORK:
That thou restrain'st from me the duty which
What, my gracious lord?
Romeo, there dead, was husband to that Juliet;
Past the mid season.
To God of heaven, King Richard and to me;
The sky doth frown and lour upon our army.
Son Edward, she is fair and virtuous,
Ah, one that was a woful looker-on
BUCKINGHAM:
Take up a brace o' the best of them; yea, the
Say what you can, my false o'erweighs your true.
tears that ever we shed.
HENRY BOLINGBROKE:
Very sooth, to-morrow.
And not our streets with war!
I know ye well enough.
iniquity, stealing away from his father with his
I think so too; for never gazed the moon
Nay, my good soldier, up;
Thou hadst a Clarence too, and Richard kill'd him.
To hear my nothings monster'd.
And I will stand the hazard of the die:
And twenty more such names and men as these
Stay, fellow; I can read.
Well, in that hit you miss: she'll not be hit
Gloucester,
BUCKINGHAM:
Where is my page? Go, villain, fetch a surgeon.
Am I like such a fellow?
To-morrow! O, that's sudden! Spare him, spare him!
Loath to depose the child, Your brother's son;
He's irremoveable,
You are too hot.
And sends allegiance and true faith of heart
I will, my lord.
are hungry: if there be any of him left, I'll bury
With promise of his sister, and what else,
But for the rest, you tell a pedigree
Why, be so still; here's nobody will steal that from
Yet let me weep for such a feeling loss.
Come, bustle, bustle; caparison my horse.
Go thither; and, with unattainted eye,
To fine the faults whose fine stands in record,
He did, my lord.
Strives Bolingbroke to be as great as we?
But welcome, sweet Clarence; my daughter shall be thine.
In praises sauced with lies.
And what of all this?
News from Verona!--How now, Balthasar!
Hie to your chamber: I'll find Romeo
O, much I fear some ill unlucky thing.
They took his head, and on the gates of York
Suggest his soon-believing adversaries,
And hast the comfort of thy children left thee:
Commend them and condemn them to her service
And smell of calumny. I have begun,
Thou wilt revolt, and fly to him, I fear.
To be your comforter when he is gone.
born to be hanged, our case is miserable.
The direful spectacle of the wreck, which touch'd
more. Adieu, trusty Pompey. 'Bless you, friar.
'Tis meet so, daughter: but lest you do repent,
Sir, the people
My fair rose wither: yet look up, behold,
As now it coldly stands, when first I woo'd her!
Hark you, sir: I'll have them very fairly bound:
Happiness courts thee in her best array;
To comb your noddle with a three-legg'd stool
Marcus.' 'He killed my father.'
Is troth-plight to your daughter. Good Paulina,
Rouse up thy youthful blood, be valiant and live.
HENRY PERCY:
Will you not push her out? Give her the bastard.
Now, sir, how do you find the prisoner?
he would mouth with a beggar, though she smelt brown
Of him that did not ask, but mock, bestow
have, I am one that, telling true under him, must
And if she chance to nod I'll rail and brawl
No, but the loss of his own royal person.
LADY ANNE:
I have deserved no better entertainment,
Unless, by using means, I lame the foot
And ill-beseeming semblance for a feast.
But you have power in me as in a kinsman.
HORTENSIO:
And harsh in sound to thine.
Shall rest in London till we come to him.
Casting their savageness aside have done
Alone I did it. Boy!
Who hadst deserved more than a prison.
AUTOLYCUS:
established against the rich, and provide more
I doubt not then but innocence shall make
Peace, peace!
And bear the palm for having bravely shed
I never in my life did look on him.
There, take the crown, and, with the crown, my curse;
And yet the steer, the heifer and the calf
Pardon, good Mercutio, my business was great; and in
KING HENRY VI:
Of all mad matches never was the like.
'Tis the more honour, because more dangerous.
is here! I think our fellows are asleep.
Thou noble thing! more dances my rapt heart
Look, what I speak, or do, or think to do,
Such news, my lord, as grieves me to unfold.
Than this weak arm: discomfort guides my tongue
Dreamt of encounters 'twixt thyself and me;
Heavens thank you for't! And now, I pray you, sir,
Attach thee as a traitorous innovator,
DUCHESS OF YORK:
And not be tied unto his brother's will.
With all the friends that thou, brave Earl of March,
Let specialties be therefore drawn between us,
QUEEN MARGARET:
Of that tongue's utterance, yet I know the sound:
That hearing how our plaints and prayers do pierce,
Warwick, these words have turn'd my hate to love;
Shake it off. Come on;
Close by, my master.
I would wish me only he.
With that which, but by being so retired,
Of his bones are coral made;
Till Warwick or himself be quite suppress'd.
The king enacts more wonders than a man,
You have undone a man of fourscore three,
Marshal, demand of yonder champion
That changeth thus his manners.
O wonderful, when devils tell the truth!
KING RICHARD II:
Would I be guilty of so deep a sin.
DUKE OF AUMERLE:
More fit to do another such offence
Had not you come upon your cue, my lord
Have aught committed that is hardly borne
To whom should I complain? Did I tell this,
shepherd, which stands by like a weather-bitten
Say, is my kingdom lost? why, 'twas my care
But shall I go mourn for that, my dear?
Then say at once what thou dost know in this.
Your heaviest censure.
No more such wives; therefore, no wife: one worse,
But to fine issues, nor Nature never lends
God forbid! Where's this girl? What, Juliet!
When I, thy three-hours wife, have mangled it?
Now buckler falsehood with a pedigree?
Am I both priest and clerk? well then, amen.
Only reserved their factor, to buy souls
O'er sixteen years and leave the growth untried
His daughter's trial! that he did but see
Pembroke and Stafford, you in our behalf
My master's.
Your beauty was the cause of that effect;
What! look upon my brother: both your pardons,
I may spur on my journey.
Then cursed she Richard. O, remember, God
Not to the beast that would usurp their den.
I here bestow a simple instrument,
Into a cloven pine; within which rift
I love her ten times more than e'er I did:
An oath is of no moment, being not took
And threatened me with death, going in the vault,
And very well appointed, as I thought,
JOHN OF GAUNT:
Do but mistake.
My lord, this argues conscience in your grace;
PETRUCHIO:
issuing blood
To shame unvulnerable, and stick i' the wars
My death's sad tale may yet undeaf his ear.
For now we owe allegiance unto Henry.
That I was nothing.
That hath beside well in his person wrought
Living to time.
It skills not much. we'll fit him to our turn,--
Second Servant:
Not only with what my revenue yielded,
Thy father's ground.
And he himself not present? O, forfend it, God,
Marry, and amen, how sound is she asleep!
Where is that damned villain Tranio,
Pray you, be gone:
First Lord:
Why then 'tis mine, if but by Warwick's gift.
That his chief followers lodge in towns about him,
Misused ere used, by time misused o'erpast.
Let not thy nurse lie with thee in thy chamber:
Hood my unmann'd blood, bating in my cheeks,
Or, if you do not, make the bridal bed
Where kings command. I was, I must confess,
O, would he did! and so perhaps he doth:
any thing which professed to make him rejoice: a
Away with him to death!
When he stands where I am and sees you there.
I stagger in:--but this new governor
Or else depart; here all eyes gaze on us.
will keep the house.
I charge you, as you hope to have redemption
JOHN OF GAUNT:
My lord and husband!
Bohemia greets you from himself by me;
Come, cords, come, nurse; I'll to my wedding-bed;
And suck'd my verdure out on't. Thou attend'st not.
Of your own state take care: this dream of mine,--
LADY CAPULET:
But, my good lord, your grace's word shall serve,
Ghost of King Henry VI:
I would most gladly know the issue of it.
This arm shall do it, or this life be spent.
Theretake it to you, trenchers, cups, and all;
That vulgars give bold'st titles, ay, and privy
Young, valiant, wise, and, no doubt, right royal,
DUKE VINCENTIO:
And, for that dowry, I'll assure her of
He straight declined, droop'd, took it deeply,
And all my pains is sorted to no proof.
Can censure 'scape; back-wounding calumny
And follow to thine answer.
Take heed, take heed, for such die miserable.
But I'll acquaint our duteous citizens
Or, if he do, it needs must be by stealth.
As is the night before some festival
DUKE VINCENTIO:
Can pierce a complete bosom. Why I desire thee
Into a rapture lets her baby cry
To whom I will retail my conquest won,
Yet who's so blind, but says he sees it not?
It must be granted I am Duke of Lancaster.
We pray the gods he may deserve your loves.
wonder at Angelo. How will you do to content this
Still cupboarding the viand, never bearing
During the wars of York and Lancaster
GLOUCESTER:
Grace me no grace, nor uncle me no uncle:
The manner of your bearing towards him, with
Where are the vile beginners of this fray?
Even so thy breast encloseth my poor heart;
And says that once more I shall interchange
And from her womb children of divers kind
Is as a fury to torment my soul;
Take no unkindness of his hasty words:
And yet me thinks I see it in thy face,
KING HENRY VI:
To lay aside life-harming heaviness
SEBASTIAN:
My mate, that's never to be found again,
Master Deep-vow, and Master Copperspur, and Master
You Edward, shall unto my Lord Cobham,
Is whispering nothing?
Away with me in post to Ravenspurgh;
some, he is in Rome: but where is he, think you?
from my shoulder to my heel with no greater a run
What! threat you me with telling of the king?
Prove armed soldiers, ere her native king
How far into the morning is it, lords?
Or Jove for's power to thunder. His heart's his mouth:
If fortune serve me, I'll requite this kindness.
We will have vengeance for it, fear thou not:
My people did expect my hence departure
Unseparable, shall within this hour,
Alas poor Romeo! he is already dead; stabbed with a
Draw, Benvolio; beat down their weapons.
mistress fallen out.
You being their mouths, why rule you not their teeth?
That hardly can I cheque my eyes from tears.
Here in this island we arrived; and here
CORIOLANUS:
Boldly, at least. But, O, poor souls,
Led in the hand of her kind aunt of Gloucester?
Than Bolingbroke's return to England;
Meantime, but think how I may do thee good,
I for an Edward weep, so do not they:
I cannot but be sad; so heavy sad
Now, Kate, I am a husband for your turn;
We need not put new matter to his charge:
As may beseem a monarch like himself.
Who does infect her?
Why, there thou hast it: two deep enemies,
Or Edward's soft and pitiful, like mine
that frailty hath examples for his falling, I should
Good my lord,--
KING RICHARD II:
That of all things upon the earth he hated
AUTOLYCUS:
I grant; as there may between the lists and the
fornication, adultery, and all uncleanliness there.
Nay, all of you that stand and look upon,
No news so bad abroad as this at home;
More nor less to others paying
A gentleman of mine I have dispatch'd
But undergo this flight, make for Sicilia,
give him gold; and though authority be a stubborn
Thy drugs are quick. Thus with a kiss I die.
Take our good meaning, for our judgment sits
Take on with me and ne'er be satisfied!
See not your bride in these unreverent robes:
drunk: but I'll swear it, and I would thou wouldst
KING RICHARD II:
What, not a word? you take your pennyworths now;
Speak sweetly, man, although thy looks be sour.
As 'twere i' the father's person; kisses the hands
I hope so, sir; for I have about me many parcels of charge.
'Twere well
Call hither Barnardine and Claudio:
First Murderer:
KING EDWARD IV:
I could weep, madam, would it do you good.
He is all the mother's, from the top to toe.
It becomes thy oath full well,
And what I want it boots not to complain.
My hair doth stand on end to hear her curses.
HORTENSIO:
His lecture will be done ere you have tuned.
Tush, that was in thy rage:
Their course of love, the tidings of her death:
So early waking, what with loathsome smells,
There's many have committed it.
Comes at the last and with a little pin
And rapt in secret studies. Thy false uncle--
Mock not my senseless conjuration, lords:
And He that might the vantage best have took
We have strict statutes and most biting laws.
By his great authority;
Think you so, sir?
And being seated, and domestic broils
By some vile forfeit of untimely death.
FERDINAND:
By heaven, my heart is purged from grudging hate:
No doubt, no doubt; O, 'tis a parlous boy;
Second Citizen:
And you were sworn true subjects unto me:
I do defy him, and I spit at him;
You shall ha' it, worthy sir.
And his enforcement of the city wives;
Where is he, hear you?
What, art thou drawn among these heartless hinds?
Tush, thou art deceived:
Why, that is spoken like a toward prince.
Thy love did read by rote and could not spell.
He cannot temperately transport his honours
So to esteem of us, and on our knees we beg,
For now the devil, that told me I did well,
For a worthy lady
If thou deny, their blood upon thy head;
Opinion that so sticks on Marcius shall
Plead what I will be, not what I have been;
Withhold revenge, dear God! 'tis not my fault,
For hand to hand he would have vanquish'd thee.
Either heaven with lightning strike the
For then thou canst not pass to Mantua;
God ye good den, fair gentlewoman.
Dost thou teach pardon pardon to destroy?
Lo, here, this long-usurped royalty
My father's goods are all distrain'd and sold,
Notice of my affair. I humbly thank you:
And we are graced with wreaths of victory.
Sir Gilbert Talbot, Sir William Stanley;
To see fair Padua, nursery of arts,
For ending thee no sooner. Thou hast nor youth nor age,
The shadow of your sorrow hath destroy'd
Repent what you have spoke.
To show myself a glass.
MAMILLIUS:
that hath been long studying at Rheims; as cunning
A man, young lady! lady, such a man
To grubs and eyeless skulls? as I discern,
The other makes you proud. He that trusts to you,
For though it have holp madmen to their wits,
But not my griefs; still am I king of those.
First Murderer:
Pray, be counsell'd:
And then will I be general of your woes,
of his country.
I shall, sir.
Shall tender duty make me suffer wrong?
We have landed in ill time: the skies look grimly
To yield your voices?
often burst and now repaired with knots; one girth
As you think fit to furnish me to-morrow?
Plantagenet! I come, Plantagenet!
First Senator:
As he's reported by this gentleman;
DUKE VINCENTIO:
Let me deserve so ill as you, and make me
Poison, I see, hath been his timeless end:
I must have leave to pass.
That Phaethon should cheque thy fiery steeds,
And with my hand I seal my true heart's love.
But with a grain a day, I would not buy
Will not so graceless be to be ingrate.
If that thy valour stand on sympathy,
How far hence is thy lord, mine honest fellow?
As hazel nuts and sweeter than the kernels.
three-and-twenty, or that youth would sleep out the
You have tripp'd since.
Let me march on, and not offend your grace.
To say 'she is a goodly lady,' and
I'll do't, my lord.
What dost thou, or what art thou, Angelo?
None, man; all idle: whores and knaves.
O prince, I conjure thee, as thou believest
CORIOLANUS:
I do desire to learn, sir: and I hope, if you have
How I may bear me here: my prime request,
If I were not in love with Mopsa, thou shouldst take
The provost, he shall bear them, whose contents
Our army's in the field
When our sea-walled garden, the whole land,
To a mother's part belongs. He turns away:
Is not infected: but if one present
You have made fair work!
That staggers thus my person. Exton, thy fierce hand
Give mine the benefit of seniory,
But stir not you till you have well determined
Grandam, his nurse.
Wailing our losses, whiles the foe doth rage;
Thou most lying slave,
You must to Pomfret, not unto the Tower.
O Lancaster, I fear thy overthrow
Pursuivant:
And I, I hope, shall reconcile them all.
And when such time they have begun to cry,
The heavens with that we have in hand are angry
proceeding, it shall become him well; wherein if he
That Henry liveth still: but were he dead,
Be the jacks fair within, the jills fair without,
KING EDWARD IV:
A heavy sentence, my most sovereign liege,
SEBASTIAN:
Worse than a theft, no less than a traducement,
At least ungentle, of the dreadful Neptune,
Would you proceed especially against Caius Marcius?
That carries no impression like the dam.
He looks like sooth. He says he loves my daughter:
Which you, mistaking, offer up to joy.
To stand upon my kingdom once again.
Which well I am assured I have not done,
Ah, Exeter!
Then, Bolingbroke, as low as to thy heart,
DUKE VINCENTIO:
PRINCE EDWARD:
To murder me and my good Lord of Gloucester?
And let him be no kinsman to my liege,
That Ancus Marcius, Numa's daughter's son,
Virtue itself: these shrugs, these hums and ha's,
Bid them home:
He'll never hear him.
Justice, O royal duke! Vail your regard
But every man betake him to his legs.
First Servant:
Art thou not Romeo and a Montague?
Such mortal drugs I have; but Mantua's law
By words or blows here let us win our right.
God and your arms be praised, victorious friends,
O heaven, the vanity of wretched fools!
But theirs is sweetened with the hope to have
Make our eyes flow with joy, hearts dance
Mark'd by the destinies to be avoided,
I fear it is too choleric a meat.
Upon what cause?
this sister of mine do with rice? But my father
Like him by chance. Yet give us our dispatch:
To meet you on the way, and welcome you.
A merchant of incomparable wealth.
The household of the king.
3 KING HENRY VI
Welcome, my lord: what, will our mother come?
No, sir, God forbid; but ashamed to kiss.
First Citizen:
Look, look! O heavy day!
GLOUCESTER:
Did follow to his urn.
It is no sin at all, but charity.
First Citizen:
a pair of strange ones.
For, well you know, this is a pitiful case.
I thought of her,
Give rest to the minds of others, such as he
AUTOLYCUS:
Your heart is full of something that does take
The king had cut off my head with my brother's.
I must confess to you, sir, I am no fighter: I am
On what occasion, God he knows, not I,
O, 'tis a fault too too unpardonable!
Of the whole dungy earth.
Thus I enforce thy rotten jaws to open,
Lord Marshal:
fool, and a coward, as you then reported him to be?
What is it else? a madness most discreet,
Cease; no more.
Whereof the king my brother stood possess'd.
HENRY BOLINGBROKE:
To answer 'I'll not wed; I cannot love,
Who am prepared against your territories,
LADY CAPULET:
but I am not to say it is a sea, for it is now the
Than thee, all noble Marcius. Let me twine
CORIOLANUS:
Come, fellow-soldier, make thou proclamation.
I do beseech you, take it not amiss;
Wherein the acorn cradled. Follow.
My pretty cousins, you mistake me much;
A knot you are of damned blood-suckers!
An if I do not, may my hands rot off
To have no screen between this part he play'd
And say you would present her at the leet,
So true men yield, with robbers so o'ermatch'd.
To monarchize, be fear'd and kill with looks,
And gave him what becomed love I might,
You woo'd me the false way.
Suddenly taken; and hath sent post haste
Good madam, be not angry with the child.
Show minutes, times, and hours: but my time
How it doth grieve me that thy head is here!
These and these conveyances of our blood
Not willing any longer conference,
Come, enough.
Will't please your honour taste of these conserves?
sky: betwixt the firmament and it you cannot thrust
Stay but a little, I will come again.
First Citizen:
To help me sort such needful ornaments
Consider further,
And, when it bows, stands up. Thou art left, Marcius:
DUKE VINCENTIO:
Fear not, my lord: we can contain ourselves,
Setting your scorns and your mislike aside,
On, to the Capitol!
Your Rome about your ears.
SEBASTIAN:
Pardon, old father, my mistaking eyes,
Let me embrace thee in my weary arms:
Why, true; he means to make a puppet of thee.
I pray thee, good Camillo, be no more importunate:
I cannot do it; yet I know no cause
FRIAR LAURENCE:
QUEEN MARGARET:
KING RICHARD II:
Or be accused of folly. I shall tell you
KING RICHARD II:
My very worthy cousin, fairly met!
The King is sickly, weak and melancholy,
And let his manly face, which promiseth
Sir, it is three days since I saw the prince. What
First Senator:
cannot, give thanks you have lived so long, and make
CORIOLANUS:
please you,
From Clifford's and Northumberland's pursuit:
Would I were dead, but that, methinks, already--
Shall remain!
And shrewd and froward, so beyond all measure
but first let me tell ye, if ye should lead her into
change your trade; I'll be your tapster still.
Procure your sureties for your days of answer.
Think not the king did banish thee,
The George, profaned, hath lost his holy honour;
good nor harm: but he seeks their hate with greater
For making me, so young, so old a widow!
Lead'st first to win some vantage.
FRIAR LAURENCE:
FRIAR LAURENCE:
Should grace the triumph of great Bolingbroke?
Come, Kate, we'll to bed.
But I fear
But, gentle sir, methinks you walk like a stranger:
Very well; and could be content to give him good
time of lethargy I picked and cut most of their
Or sound so base a parle, my teeth shall tear
Ere we may think her ripe to be a bride.
I do beseech you, either not believe
And know how we proceed.
DUCHESS OF YORK:
Come on, my masters, each man take his stand:
Are you so fond of your young prince as we
Let not to-morrow then ensue to-day;
Why, then I would not fly. Ah, Montague,
Shall falter under foul rebellion's arms.
DUCHESS OF YORK:
GLOUCESTER:
Her suit is granted for her husband's lands.
Look, York: I stain'd this napkin with the blood
Catesby, we come. Lords, will you go with us?
He rose against him, being his sovereign,
Their needless vouches? Custom calls me to't:
Is the third man that e'er I saw, the first
What pleasure was he given to?
Whose arms gave shelter to the princely eagle,
I am unfit for state and majesty;
To hear Cominius speak, I'll keep at home.
That is no slander, sir, which is a truth;
The noble Paris and true Romeo dead.
I prize above my dukedom.
Where nothing lives but crosses, cares and grief.
To whose foul mouth no healthsome air breathes in,
With these forced thoughts, I prithee, darken not
Second Gentleman:
GLOUCESTER:
The very way to catch them.
I must perforce. Farewell.
Here is the steed, we the caparison:
Lifts me above the ground with cheerful thoughts.
HENRY BOLINGBROKE:
cure of the thing you wot of, unless they kept very
Or lowly factor for another's gain;
Ay, you have been a mouse-hunt in your time;
Be sacrificed, some hour before his time,
And I will make thee think thy swan a crow.
HORTENSIO:
The cover of the wings of grasshoppers,
KING RICHARD III:
Your differences shall all rest under gage
This other Eden, demi-paradise,
Must be my convoy in the secret night.
Of this diseased opinion, and betimes;
To take in many towns ere almost Rome
Hath he a sister?
Whereto if you'll a willing ear incline,
That no dissension hinder government:
And shall I stand, and thou sit in my throne?
Richard and Hastings: let them go; here is The duke.
of the benefit defends the deceit from reproof.
QUEEN MARGARET:
And all those friends that deign to follow me.
But when extremities speak. I have heard you say,
DUKE VINCENTIO:
KING RICHARD II:
Pardon me, God, I knew not what I did!
Than doth a rich embroider'd canopy
AUTOLYCUS:
Now old desire doth in his death-bed lie,
compound with the major part of your syllables: and
Besides himself, are all the English peers,
The king is come: deal mildly with his youth;
To find this practise out.
Why, when, I say? Nay, good sweet Kate, be merry.
And you can witness with me this is true.
To look so poorly and to speak so fair?
And I am come to seek that name in England;
A fine musician to instruct our mistress;
And had the tribute of his supple knee,
That thou no more shalt see this knack, as never
Of hostile arms! myself myself confound!
Put this in any liquid thing you will,
Stand all apart,
But I am doubtful of your modesties;
EARL OF SALISBURY:
I'll not put
And hearten those that fight in your defence:
Resign thy chair, and where I stand kneel thou,
Now the red pestilence strike all trades in Rome,
A whoreson beetle-headed, flap-ear'd knave!
On this side my hand, and on that side yours.
Tears show their love, but want their remedies.
Of my dug and felt it bitter, pretty fool,
Of the same house Publius and Quintus were,
Be brief, lest that be process of thy kindness
And thou shalt still remain the Duke of York.
HENRY BOLINGBROKE:
That from this castle's tatter'd battlements
You shall have me assisting you in all.
That in his nonage council under him,
If thou love me, 'tis time thou wert away.
Peace, ho, for shame! confusion's cure lives not
For these known evils, but to give me leave,
KING EDWARD IV:
feel, to thy cold comfort, for being slow in thy hot office?
What is about to be? I am out of breath;
What's he approacheth boldly to our presence?
Flower as she was, deflowered by him.
He has done nobly, and cannot go without any honest
A prayer upon her grave. I'll not seek far--
That little thinks she has been sluiced in's absence
Translate his malice towards you into love,
Lest in revenge thereof, sith God is just,
O, do not swear, my lord of Buckingham.
How many children hast thou, widow? tell me.
And ask him what apparel he will wear;
To put on better ere he go to church.
Sweet prince, the untainted virtue of your years
We should infringe the holy privilege
particular prosperity, and love thee no worse than
O, they did urge it still unto the king!
Second Servant:
Your presence makes us rich, most noble lord.
And cited up a thousand fearful times,
To expel him thence. I think he'll be to Rome
Alas, poor man! a million of beating may come to a
Of threescore and two years; a silly time
As he is proud to do't.
To more approved service and desert.
To yield the ghost: but still the envious flood
In puny battle slay me.
Were but one danger, and to keep him here
But that he speaks.
Sir, sir, the first's for me; let her go by.
This is that face, thou cruel Angelo,
For inequality; but let your reason serve
DUKE OF AUMERLE:
Now will he sit under a medlar tree,
Craft against vice I must apply:
So I by that; it is my day, my life.
It is the lark that sings so out of tune,
If you'll stand fast, we'll beat them to their wives,
Comfort, my lord; and so I take my leave.
A noble life before a long, and wish
He was in the right; and so indeed it is.
The duke is entering: therefore, hence, away!
Murder'd her kinsman. O, tell me, friar, tell me,
There is my gage, the manual seal of death,
NORTHUMBERLAND:
Conceiving the dishonour of his mother,
FRIAR LAURENCE:
whisper him in your behalfs; and if it be in man
Stanley, I will requite thy forwardness.
Whose names are written there, and to them say,
Her widowhood, be it that she survive me,
done, let the law go whistle: I warrant you.
silence in it; and the place answer to convenience.
GLOUCESTER:
I am bound by oath, and therefore pardon me.
Death and destruction dog thee at the heels;
That stain'd their fetlocks in his smoking blood,
That, his apparent open guilt omitted,
DUKE OF AUMERLE:
Be collected:
She came adorned hither like sweet May,
So sacred as it is, I have done sin:
As though she bid me stay by her a week:
And had no welcomes home: but he returns,
POLIXENES:
ears ere it be out.
Came short of composition, but in chief
LADY CAPULET:
Of my conception. The state, whereon I studied
LADY CAPULET:
Is, like a blasted sapling, wither'd up:
Whoever got thee, there thy mother stands;
As falcon doth the fowl, is yet a devil
No faith, no honesty in men; all perjured,
Which they have often made against the senate,
Been publicly accused, so shall she have
MISTRESS OVERDONE:
And, let your father make her the assurance,
Alas! how should you govern any kingdom,
Would you have been so brief with him, he would
How many of you have mine eyes beheld!
I thank you, good friend Lucio.
God give us leisure for these rites of love!
When I, that censure him, do so offend,
Welcome! one mess is like to be your cheer:
PETRUCHIO:
Ay, spare us not. Say we read lectures to you.
Well thought upon; I have it here about me.
deceived in Angelo! If ever he return and I can
Banish us both and send the king with me.
You live that shall cry woe for this after.
To-morrow, then, we will attend your grace:
Then, since this earth affords no joy to me,
Return unto thy lord; commend me to him:
I will frown as I pass by, and let them take it as
Anon I'll give thee more instructions.
Mine enemy has more power.
Away from the light steals home my heavy son,
I'll grace thee with that robbery, thy stol'n name
Were he to stand for consul, never would he
Hath he born himself penitently in prison? how
Then, Warwick, thus: our sister shall be Edward's;
It is not my consent,
And carry with us ears and eyes for the time,
Now the fair goddess, Fortune,
KING RICHARD III:
O, 'twas the foulest deed to slay that babe,
KING EDWARD IV:
I warrant him, Petruchio is Kated.
A handkerchief; which, say to her, did drain
KING LEWIS XI:
My women may be with me; for you see
be a tall fellow of thy hands.
I' the midst o' the body, idle and unactive,
For Edward's sake; and see how he requites me!
O valiant lord, the Duke of York is slain!
I am friend to them and you: upon which errand
AUTOLYCUS:
To draw him from his holy exercise.
Besides, if things go well,
LORD BERKELEY:
Which never dreamt on aught but butcheries:
Which puts some of us in distemper, but
BALTHASAR:
Ay, marry, am I, sir; and now 'tis plotted.
Have mercy, Jesu!--Soft! I did but dream.
Send for the county; go tell him of this:
The Volsces whom you serve, you might condemn us,
I am as peremptory as she proud-minded;
And, for unfelt imagination,
Thy place is fill'd, thy sceptre wrung from thee,
For, ere the six years that he hath to spend
And, in this resolution, I defy thee;
Come, sir: did you set these women on to slander
It was the nightingale, and not the lark,
Soft, sir! one word more.
KING HENRY VI:
HORTENSIO:
What's yet behind, that's meet you all should know.
And I believe twill never stand upright
Are crack'd in pieces by malignant death,
KING HENRY VI:
What black magician conjures up this fiend,
Did shake down mellow fruit.
And wrath o'erwhelm'd my pity: I request you
Who hath a story ready for your ear.
What, think You we are Turks or infidels?
That which I shall report will bear no credit,
And still to nose the offence.
This squash, this gentleman. Mine honest friend,
By heaven, brat, I'll plague ye for that word.
With open outcry toward our monument.
To cast thy wandering eyes on every stale,
Thanks, good friend Escalus, for thy much goodness:
And I in all unwillingness will go.
For man or master; then it follows thus;
This is the hand that stabb'd thy father York;
I will, as 'twere a brother of your order,
I'll run away till I am bigger, but then I'll fight.
You have been a scourge to her enemies, you have
The one for ever earn'd a royal husband;
As mercy does.
The day is ours, the bloody dog is dead.
I hope he is; but yet let mothers doubt.
direct answer. To-morrow morning are to die Claudio
O blessed heavens!
comondy a Christmas gambold or a tumbling-trick?
When I have heard your king's desert recounted,
Your knees to them, not arms, must help. Alack,
So it be new, there's no respect how vile--
Third Citizen:
Not what is dangerous present, but the loss
From off the gates of York fetch down the head,
Then fare thee well: I must go buy spices for our
Kindness in women, not their beauteous looks,
She vied so fast, protesting oath on oath,
And throw their power i' the dust.
to the wall.
No money, on my faith, but the gleek;
Which when I saw, I reprehended them;
KING RICHARD III:
The mighty dukes
Yes, I agree, and thank you for your motion.
Sir, you say well and well you do conceive;
More fearful, is deliver'd.
Not I; unless the breath of heartsick groans,
And turns the sun to shade; alas! alas!
Surrey, thou liest.
Had circumvention? 'Tis not four days gone
It may be so, for it is not mine own.
But I, a maid, die maiden-widowed.
You were a moveable.
Come, he hath hid himself among these trees,
CORIOLANUS:
If you submit you to the people's voices,
By the false faith of him I trusted most;
Come on, lay it by: and let's first see moe
Where fearing dying pays death servile breath.
For no thought is contented. The better sort,
Purge all infection from our air whilst you
To this pernicious caitiff deputy,--
Even as she speaks, why, their hearts were yours;
Can vengeance be pursued further than death?
This doth not so, for she divideth us:
Deep, hollow, treacherous, and full of guile,
Then wherefore dost thou hope he is not shipp'd?
He has no equal.
inch narrow to an ell broad!
Shall keep his native progress, but surcease:
Our very priests must become mockers, if they shall
Be sent for, to return from France with speed;
I had rather be their servant in my way,
And the moon changes even as your mind.
Recover breath; tell us how near is danger,
To whom the heavens in thy nativity
I were a baby still. I love you better.
I know not how it tastes; though it be dish'd
Sir, here's the door, this is Lucentio's house:
That ever, ever, I did yet behold!
KATHARINA:
And with this knife I'll help it presently.
KING RICHARD III:
Such hideous cries, that with the very noise
At home, upon my brother's guard, even there,
To thrust the lie unto him.
For 'tis most dangerous.
butterfly: and when he caught it, he let it go
Take that, and mend the plucking off the other.
If you will live, lament; if die, be brief,
command at all hours.
LADY ANNE:
A deadly groan, like life and death's departing.
My unblown flowers, new-appearing sweets!
Of Tybalt deaf to peace, but that he tilts
What you have nobly done.
And betwixt them and my lord chamberlain;
I thank thee, Varrius; thou hast made good haste:
DUKE OF YORK:
My lord, some two days since I saw the prince,
it in the behalf of his friend: and I'll swear to
Is this the poultice for my aching bones?
Show me how, good father.
For thou hast made the happy earth thy hell,
remedy presents itself. I do make myself believe
She weeps, and says her Henry is deposed;
If thou delight to view thy heinous deeds,
And I do hope good days and long to see.
Who, raging with thy tears, and they with them,
Now, you companion, I'll say an errand for you:
That at the parting all the church did echo:
Do plainly give you out an unstain'd shepherd,
The lips of those that breathe them in the air.
custom-shrunk.
And Tybalt's dead, that would have slain my husband:
sights: the men are not yet cold under water, nor
HENRY BOLINGBROKE:
The heavens so dim by day. A savage clamour!
But he, his own affections' counsellor,
Yes, that thou hast, whether thou art tainted or free.
I pray thee, mark me--that a brother should
With Rivers, Vaughan, Grey: and so 'twill do
'Twill bring you gain, or perish on the seas.
I'll blush you thanks.
Repeal him with the welcome of his mother;
Yea, and to marry her, if her dowry please.
And when my uncle told me so, he wept,
Prefer them hither; for to cunning men
To rouse his wrongs and chase them to the bay.
Did Julius Caesar build that place, my lord?
if the bear be gone from the gentleman and how much
Play the maid's part, still answer nay, and take it.
Well; what's your suit?
despite of the flesh and the blood.
Second Senator:
My stooping duty tenderly shall show.
For York in justice puts his armour on.
Even in these looks I made.
The present wars devour him: he is grown
Rise up, good aunt.
Nay, do not say, 'stand up;'
I, Daedalus; my poor boy, Icarus;
If, one by one, you wedded all the world,
His old betrothed but despised;
If your more ponderous and settled project
Amongst this princely heap, if any here,
This field-bed is too cold for me to sleep:
Shall be well winged with our chiefest horse.
Coriolanus neither to care whether they love or hate
You are the musty chaff; and you are smelt
Where are the evidence that do accuse me?
CORIOLANUS:
Would thus have wrought you,--for the stone is mine--
Good friar, I know you do, and have found it.
Were play'd in jest by counterfeiting actors?
And none but fools do wear it; cast it off.
combat that 'twixt joy and sorrow was fought in
A cold premeditation for my purpose!
As you have done; that's what I can; induced
And yet, I warrant, it had upon its brow
My cabin where I lay; thrice bow'd before me,
And I'll not wish thee to her.
How he hath drunk, he cracks his gorge, his sides,
And gentlewomen wear such caps as these
That, hearing of her beauty and her wit,
That mortal ears might hardly endure the din?
KING HENRY VI:
O, had it been a stranger, not my child,
But 'tis no wit to go.
DUKE VINCENTIO:
QUEEN MARGARET:
To do a thing, where I the issue doubted,
I have not stopp'd mine ears to their demands,
My brother Montague shall post to London:
Think you, my lord, this little prating York
I hate it, and desire all good men's love.
leave. And, I beseech you, look into Master Froth
But lusty, young, and cheerly drawing breath.
Third Servingman:
With sleight and manhood stole to Rhesus' tents,
Come, I have heard that fearful commenting
The younger then is free and not before.
For what, lieutenant? for well using me?
Too rude, too boisterous, and it pricks like thorn.
But now, I tell thee--keep it to thyself--
The noble gentleman gave up the ghost.
And I unto the sea from whence I came.
Bad news, my lord: Ely is fled to Richmond;
Why, sir, what's your conceit in that?
If without peril it be possible,
First Citizen:
Send out a pursuivant at arms
Tutus Aufidius, is he within your walls?
PETRUCHIO:
Here is Lord Angelo shall give you justice:
To the syllable.
QUEEN ELIZABETH:
Would use his heaven for thunder;
Is piled upon his faith and will continue
Call Edward king and at his hands beg mercy?
Second Gentleman:
composition with the King of Hungary, why then all
rest; for there is nothing in the between but
Coriolanus banished!
To comfort Edward with our company.
To Richmond, in those parts beyond the sea
It boots thee not to be compassionate:
The noble sister of Publicola,
That frowns on me looks sadly upon him.
it on the drawer, when indeed there is no need.
God pardon all oaths that are broke to me!
Sits safe and still without him.
You cannot guess who caused your father's death.
He will not wake.
The words would add more anguish than the wounds.
sincerely: had I a dozen sons, each in my love
At last by notes of household harmony
But as we stand in fear,--
No, not a denier. Go by, Jeronimy: go to thy cold
First Lord:
PRINCE EDWARD:
That she may long live here, God say amen!
Think you I can a resolution fetch
Welcome to Rome, renowned Coriolanus!
embraces his son-in-law; then again worries he his
GLOUCESTER:
What would you have me do? I am a subject,
Say, Somerville, what says my loving son?
Whose sale is present death in Mantua,
And mine, fair lady Bona, joins with yours.
First Murderer:
Hast thou tapp'd out and drunkenly caroused:
And you were Isabel! should it then be thus?
knowest, winter tames man, woman and beast; for it
Be executed in his father's sight.
Sir, my lord,
You would be another Penelope: yet, they say, all
'Tis beauty that doth oft make women proud;
What should you fear?
As if you were a god to punish, not
Why I descend into this bed of death,
Meantime, this deep disgrace in brotherhood
Marry, I fare well for here is cheer enough.
Alack, my lord, that fault is none of yours;
We thank thee, gentle Percy, for thy pains;
I' the shoulder and i' the left arm there will be
and blood has not offended the king; and so your
Which art a lion and a king of beasts?
Consider you what services he has done for his country?
Have you got leave to go to shrift to-day?
I take it up; and by that sword I swear
Nurse, will you go with me into my closet,
Who spake of brotherhood? who spake of love?
Your most grave belly was deliberate,
DUKE OF AUMERLE:
Three words, dear Romeo, and good night indeed.
Fie, fie, fie!
Alack, alack, what blood is this, which stains
Than sway with them in theirs.
Worthy Cominius, speak.
In the dark backward and abysm of time?
GLOUCESTER:
Come hither to me, Master Elbow; come hither, Master
Hath thwarted our intents. Come, come away.
Marcius coming home!
good quarrel, and the law on my side.
I prithee, sister Kate, untie my hands.
His remedies are tame i' the present peace
For your physicians have expressly charged,
of profession: one would think it were Mistress
still, ha?
Second Gentleman:
But what a fool am I to chat with you,
Your honour's players, heating your amendment,
Urge the necessity and state of times,
Arm'd as we are, let's stay within this house.
Sirrah, here's a fellow will help you to-morrow in
As I do pray the gods.
I smell sweet savours and I feel soft things:
And so say I.
To answer all the city.
Whereof we have ta'en good and good store, of all
To wreak the love I bore my cousin
I would they would forget me, like the virtues
Have I in such a prison.
Gentlemen, forward to the bridal dinner:
Thus give I mine, and thus take I thy heart.
Not he that sets his foot upon her back.
Art thou certain this is true? is it most certain?
Or as a moat defensive to a house,
putting-on; methinks strangely, for he hath not used it before.
Mark what I say, which you shall find
As time and our concernings shall importune,
I am agreed; and would I had given him the best
No; God forbid your grace should be forsworn.
Ay, gracious sovereign; they are so link'd in
I'll join mine eldest daughter and my joy
Once did I lay an ambush for your life,
If friend or foe, let him be gently used.
One desperate grief cures with another's languish:
Their perch and not their terror.
Farewell, good cousin; farewell, gentle friends.
His time is spent, our pilgrimage must be.
our strange sights: he must know 'tis none of your
Why stand'st thou still, and go'st not to the duke?
And so in progress to be hatch'd and born,
Is she become the suitor?
The fairest I have yet beheld, desires access
Speak freely what you think.
The general suit of Rome; never admitted
That you shall be new-christen'd in the Tower.
I do desire the like.
Favours that keep within. Come, Escalus,
Yonder comes news. A wager they have met.
Was my beloved in Rome: yet thou behold'st!
Strike, drum.
We shall be short in our provision:
Of some strange nature, letting it there stand
Be calm, be calm.
I do assure thee, father, so it is.
Second Murderer:
In the devotion of a subject's love,
take cold. Holla, ho! Curtis.
Your brother Richard mark'd him for the grave:
When it was less expected: he replied,
Your fellow tribune.
BUCKINGHAM:
Sprawl'st thou? take that, to end thy agony.
Become your time of day; and yours, and yours,
Second Murderer:
The mad-brain'd bridegroom took him such a cuff
Sir, by your leave: having come to Padua
My father hath a power; inquire of him
HORTENSIO:
But to himself so secret and so close,
Long die thy happy days before thy death;
The clogging burthen of a guilty soul.
As like Hermione as is her picture,
KING RICHARD III:
Whereto we are bound, together with thy victory,
Then let the earth be drunken with our blood:
I say 'silver sound,' because musicians sound for silver.
And tamed the king, and made the dauphin stoop;
You tempt him over-much.
CORIOLANUS:
You may say it, but not swear it.
It seems she hangs upon the cheek of night
Alike betwitched by the charm of looks,
to be married to hell?
AUTOLYCUS:
No, no: but all this did I know before.
disturbing the lords within.
Senators, &C:
An hour but married, Tybalt murdered,
As we this garden! We at time of year
The man that mocks at it and sets it light.
Thy purpose marriage, send me word to-morrow,
Tullus Aufidius, that will put you to 't.
By that false woman, as this king by thee.
BUCKINGHAM:
Be plain, Queen Margaret, and tell thy grief;
Held me in chase, that I was forced to wheel
And thou shalt be the third if this sword hold.
To call hers exquisite, in question more:
Upon's again.
This trick may chance to scathe you, I know what:
Al'ce madam, or Joan madam?
So shall you feel the loss, but not the friend
In more than this deed does require! And blessing
By Bushy, Bagot and their complices,
But know not how it went. My second joy
If the first that did the edict infringe
NORTHUMBERLAND:
What more remains?
That thou betray'dst Polixenes,'twas nothing;
Hortensio, to what end are all these words?
For sorrow's eye, glazed with blinding tears,
To rest mistrustful where a noble heart
If thou hadst fear'd to break an oath by Him,
Faith, sir, if you had told as many lies in his
And light thee on thy way to Mantua:
And in the very pangs of death he cried,
O, but remember this another day,
youth with comeliness plucked all gaze his way, when
And let it be more than Alcides' twelve.
From shelves and rocks that threaten us with wreck.
Now, on the Sunday following, shall Bianca
Let me be punish'd, that have minded you
QUEEN MARGARET:
That the earth owes. I hear it now above me.
It should be thus with him: he must die tomorrow.
Aufidius, though I cannot make true wars,
Your maidenheads growing: O Proserpina,
The apprehension of his present portance,
You have paid home: but that you have vouchsafed,
CORIOLANUS:
Like one that stands upon a promontory,
counterfeit assurance: take you assurance of her,
Which waste of idle hours hath quite thrown down.
Towards her deserved children is enroll'd
But soft, but see, or rather do not see,
Faults proper to himself: if he had so offended,
Signior Lucio, did not you say you knew that
That turns their countenances.
'Gainst foreign storms than any home-bred marriage.
Spoke he of me?
PETRUCHIO:
Hermione was not so much wrinkled, nothing
I am too old to fawn upon a nurse,
Which dances with your daughter?
DUKE OF AUMERLE:
I will be angry: what hast thou to do?
Now, Bagot, freely speak thy mind;
To unbuild the city and to lay all flat.
Taking the measure of an unmade grave.
And wouldst do so, I think, should we encounter
POLIXENES:
Ere he express himself, or move the people
How he may soften at the sight o' the child:
To bear the matter thus; mere weakness. If
DUKE VINCENTIO:
A hundred then.
No, I'll not meddle.
I am content.
And hark, what noise the general makes! To him!
For I dare so far free him--made him fear'd,
How went he under him?
Well, come, my Kate; we will unto your father's
Will keep a league till death. Hie thee to France
Long live Edward the Fourth!
With one that wants her wits?
Sicilia cannot show himself over-kind to Bohemia.
SEBASTIAN:
Where that same banish'd runagate doth live,
3 KING HENRY VI
Now tell me, brother Clarence, what think you
I had rather have my wounds to heal again
thou make minstrels of us, look to hear nothing but
Order the trial, marshal, and begin.
To see inherited my very wishes
Pardon me, lords, 'tis the first time that ever
That from the prime creation e'er she framed.'
perdona-mi's, who stand so much on the new form,
Alack, poor Richard! where rode he the whilst?
In profiting by them. Nay, call us ten times frail;
I long to hear him call the drunkard husband,
Well, forward, forward! thus the bowl should run,
Nor tears nor prayers shall purchase out abuses:
Nor near nor farther off, my gracious lord,
Which are as easy broke as they make forms.
GLOUCESTER:
KING EDWARD IV:
A bloody deed, and desperately dispatch'd!
With those gross taunts I often have endured.
O ill-dispersing wind of misery!
Unless for that, my liege, I cannot guess.
I told him that your father was at Venice,
That I have worn a visor and could tell
BUCKINGHAM:
Thus far our fortune keeps an upward course,
In mine own person; holp to reap the fame
The worthy fellow is our general: he's the rock, the
never saw you before in all my life.
Loved me above the measure of a father;
MAMILLIUS:
Who is already sick and pale with grief,
They'll give him death by inches.
I am, as thy general is.
But so is not she.
That we may arm us to encounter it.
QUEEN ELIZABETH:
O me! this sight of death is as a bell,
complaints, and to deliver us from devices
They'll talk of state; for every one doth so
KING RICHARD III:
Even as the waving sedges play with wind.
See that Claudio
CORIOLANUS:
Whom conscience and my kindred bids to right.
Hie you, make haste, for it grows very late.
O sir, such a life, with such a wife, were strange!
present. Why should I carry lies abroad?
Virtue is bold, and goodness never fearful. Have
LORD ROSS:
Have shaken Edward from the regal seat,
Let's hear. O fie! the treble jars.
Have robb'd my strong-knit sinews of their strength,
But I will write again to Mantua,
Must he needs die?
how you take it!
Now seems to it. Your patience this allowing,
Amen, amen! but come what sorrow can,
That can less hide his love or hate than he;
to be glad of yours.
Were enough noble to be upright judge
unto whom I was going; I shall there have money, or
they would else have married me to the rotten medlar.
How sometimes nature will betray its folly,
Most incident to maids; bold oxlips and
How will the country for these woful chances
Shall have the chinks.
O'ercome with pride, ambitious past all thinking,
For we to-morrow hold divided councils,
But I will charm him first to keep his tongue.
Her face defaced with scars of infamy,
Is with a mighty power landed at Milford,
What I can urge against him. Although it seems,
smutch'd thy nose?
That, upon knowledge of my parentage,
We must be brief when traitors brave the field.
For visiting your highness: my best train
O courteous Tybalt! honest gentleman!
He dies to me again when talk'd of: sure,
DUKE OF YORK:
And let mischance be slave to patience.
PETRUCHIO:
now than an eight-year-old horse. The tartness
For this poor furniture and mean array.
Or hoop his body more with thy embraces,
Rich men look sad and ruffians dance and leap,
Still your own foes, deliver you as most
Why, sir, I pray, are not the streets as free
Which he so sets at nought.
You had more beard when I last saw you; but your
Arm, arm, my name! a puny subject strikes
Therefore--
You had much ado to make his anchor hold:
My body shall make good upon this earth,
LADY GREY:
father brother; and then the prince my brother and
I'll make a corse of him that disobeys.
Uncle, farewell: and, cousin too, adieu:
LADY CAPULET:
Cuts beauty off from all posterity.
Second Citizen:
GLOUCESTER:
So deal with him as I prove true to you.
Believe me, on mine honour,
For doing worthy vengeance on thyself,
Are you call'd forth from out a world of men
Am come to crave thy just and lawful aid;
PETRUCHIO:
What doth her beauty serve, but as a note
How sweet a plant have you untimely cropp'd!
Or pile ten hills on the Tarpeian rock,
And then I'll speak a little.
Hast not the soft way which, thou dost confess,
In secret ambush on the forest side
Remit thy other forfeits. Take him to prison;
HORTENSIO:
Some word there was, worser than Tybalt's death,
To thy false seeming! Blood, thou art blood:
That thou shalt do no murder: and wilt thou, then,
You see how he intends to use the people.
LADY CAPULET:
But one thing to rejoice and solace in,
'Tis but the pale reflex of Cynthia's brow;
The fires i' the lowest hell fold-in the people!
That thou, Aumerle, didst send two of thy men
good enough for him.
That you are like to Sir Vincentio.
I'll drown you in the malmsey-butt within.
Under yond yew-trees lay thee all along,
DUKE OF YORK:
was done to Elbow's wife, that he hath cause to
There's one thing wanting, which I doubt not but
KING RICHARD III:
Thou camest on earth to make the earth my hell.
Of its right father. Blossom, speed thee well!
3 KING HENRY VI
And yet I wish but for the thing I have:
Put finger in the eye, an she knew why.
Blessed be your royal grace!
GLOUCESTER:
And set thy diadem upon my head;
And mark how well the sequel hangs together:
To use it for my time: I am a brother
I'll tell you how these lands are to be got.
myself, fellow Curtis.
And clap thyself my love: then didst thou utter
Spakest thou of Juliet? how is it with her?
Thou bloodless remnant of that royal blood!
But, to prevent the tyrant's violence,--
need none, so long as I live.
Well, what was yours?
CLEOMENES:
A greater power than we can contradict
Tell me for truth the measure of his love
these two moles, these blind ones, aboard him: if he
But one, poor one, one poor and loving child,
So long as Edward is thy constant friend,
But thus his simple truth must be abused
Here's ado,
Fie, how my bones ache! what a jaunt have I had!
condition of a man!
Love loving not itself none other can.
Why, what of that?
Then, if you speak, you must not show your face,
Stanley, he is your wife's son well, look to it.
And I will take thy word: yet if thou swear'st,
LADY ANNE:
I tell thee, Catesby--
No such jade as you, if me you mean.
The life of Tybalt.
Thou, traitor, hast set on thy wife to this.
them plainly see't.
Ay, brother, to our grief, as it is yours:
I saw our party to their trenches driven,
Right son to the right Vincentio;
KING RICHARD II:
weather continuing, this mystery remained
Though I am satisfied and need no more
art full of error; I am sound.
I prithee, grieve, to make me merry, York.
The son and heir of old Tiberio.
Before the duke, and to the head of Angelo
Have now the fatal object in my eye
True hope is swift, and flies with swallow's wings:
God for his Richard hath in heavenly pay
And now in peace my soul shall part to heaven,
I thought your marriage fit; else imputation,
the dukes fall upon the king.
I wake before the time that Romeo
Your temples burned in their cement, and
First Citizen:
Which God revenge!
WESTMORELAND:
First Officer:
CORIOLANUS:
CORIOLANUS:
And welcome, Somerset: I hold it cowardice
Which industry and courage might have saved?
Tell her thou madest away her uncle Clarence,
KATHARINA:
Art thou so hasty? I have stay'd for thee,
PETRUCHIO:
Not for myself, Lord Warwick, but my son,
But, sirrah, not for my sake, but your master's, I advise
As if thou wert distraught and mad with terror?
But in the presence of the prioress:
The yards and bowsprit, would I flame distinctly,
Even from the tongueless caverns of the earth,
And that same vengeance doth he hurl on thee,
God save your grace! I do beseech your majesty,
We are not safe, Clarence; we are not safe.
Add proof unto mine armour with thy prayers;
MAMILLIUS:
DUKE VINCENTIO:
has left with thee: if this be a horseman's coat,
The untimely fall of virtuous Lancaster.
My affections
My hangings all of Tyrian tapestry;
On a dissension of a doit, break out
proportion; rests me his minim rest, one, two, and
All in Bohemia's well; this satisfaction
GLOUCESTER:
Even to the uttermost, as I please, in words.
Show'd mastership in floating; fortune's blows,
Than crave the hire which first we do deserve.
Come, my old son: I pray God make thee new.
A murderous villain, and so still thou art.
And nothing can we call our own but death
Than boys pursuing summer butterflies,
Arise to let him in: he is call'd up.
DUCHESS OF YORK:
DUCHESS OF YORK:
And Warwick, doing what you gave in charge,
Not decked with diamonds and Indian stones,
And so shall mine, before you touch the meat.
Then I will give you the serving-creature.
More than the nature of a brother's love!
Let us seem humbler after it is done
rehearse, though credit be asleep and not an ear
But thou shalt hear it: whistle then to me,
Thou rather with thy sharp and sulphurous bolt
Forgiveness, horse! why do I rail on thee,
You do but lose your labour.
To mine own children in good bringing up:
I would I were thy bird.
BUCKINGHAM:
Or earth, gape open wide and eat him quick,
By every syllable a faithful verity:
as good go a mile on his errand.
Whose hand soever lanced their tender hearts,
Bareheaded, lower than his proud steed's neck,
Thou shouldst not scape me here.
Go tell the lords o' the city I am here:
Your very worshipful and loving friends,
My conscience hath a thousand several tongues,
To see a goodlier man.
And Hastings as he favours Edward's cause!
If you do hold the same intent wherein
Tressel and Berkeley, go along with me.
SEBASTIAN:
So sure as this beard's grey,
Our aery buildeth in the cedar's top,
ARCHIDAMUS:
Not yet, I thee beseech:
Second Murderer:
Allowing him a breath, a little scene,
Truly, the souls of men are full of dread:
Marcius, his name?
And pluck my magic garment from me. So:
But yet my caution was more pertinent
it will let this man live! But how out of this can she avail?
POLIXENES:
Direct me, if it be your will,
So had you need.
I should lament thy miserable state.
O this learning, what a thing it is!
Would it not shame thee in so fair a troop
Plantagenet doth quit Plantagenet.
is the right Vincentio.
This gentleman is happily arrived,
Pierced to the soul with slander's venom'd spear,
What less than dooms-day is the prince's doom?
Pray now, no more.
Now, Mars, I prithee, make us quick in work,
Second Watchman:
Made by the joiner squirrel or old grub,
not to kill the duke.
Richard except, those whom we fight against
And with the other fling it at thy face,
Or else be impudently negative,
Of his ill-ta'en suspicion! Come, Camillo;
Thank you, good Pompey; and, in requital of your
A pack of blessings lights up upon thy back;
BARNARDINE:
Think you, but that I know our state secure,
be I will call upon you anon, for some advantage to yourself.
First Keeper:
You shall, my lord.
LADY CAPULET:
Who for this seven years hath esteem'd him
None good, my lord, to please you with the hearing;
DUCHESS OF YORK:
My brother did love Juliet,
My babes were destined to a fairer death,
GLOUCESTER:
Deserve such pity of him as the wolf
It is some meteor that the sun exhales,
Comfort, good comfort! We must to the king and show
He that bereft thee, lady, of thy husband,
KING RICHARD II:
How often said, my dignity would last
Becomes your enemy, for mocking him
Patience awhile, you'll hear the belly's answer.
duke, I say to thee again, would eat mutton on
All books of love, see that at any hand;
That which you are, mistress o' the feast: come on,
If yet her brother's pardon be come hither:
You'ld call your children yours.
And soon I'll rid you from the fear of them.
First Servant:
To speak of Perdita, now grown in grace
O, where is Romeo? saw you him to-day?
O bloody Richard! miserable England!
Go, trumpet, to the walls, and sound a parle.
No more than were I painted I would wish
And all the pleasures you usurp are mine.
And yours, close fighting ere I did approach:
Suspect me, that I mean no good to him:
By bare imagination of a feast?
But rather lose her to an African;
Why, then resolve me whether you will or no.
And cry 'Content' to that which grieves my heart,
Of sulphurous roaring the most mighty Neptune
I pray she may; as well for the encouragement of the
For queen, a very caitiff crown'd with care;
My master knows not but I am gone hence;
O, if a virgin,
Sign me a present pardon for my brother,
Maid's mild behavior and sobriety.
To bring you thus together, 'tis no sin,
Thou art deceived: 'tis not thy southern power,
Catesby, o'erlook the walls.
Your brother and his lover have embraced:
But are they, Ariel, safe?
DUKE VINCENTIO:
You are abused and by some putter-on
We are but plain fellows, sir.
It grieves me for the death of Claudio;
CORIOLANUS:
Provide the feast, father, and bid the guests;
Enfranchisement immediate on his knees:
From me, the lord on't.
I'll manacle thy neck and feet together:
loves a cup of hot wine with not a drop of allaying
the right: but to the point. As I say, this
you;--and thus much for greeting. Now, my spruce
Her brother's ghost his paved bed would break,
To fight with Glendower and his complices:
BISHOP OF ELY:
To make thee consul.
I am content: Richard Plantagenet,
Have we not had a taste of his obedience?
will I frame and make fit for his attempt. If you
Is Signior Lucentio within, sir?
Struck me, that thought to stay him, overboard,
This precious book of love, this unbound lover,
I'll pray a thousand prayers for thy death,
Shall I be your playfellow?
First Servingman:
3 KING HENRY VI
Even in the best blood chamber'd in his bosom.
BUCKINGHAM:
Lord Angelo hath to the public ear
Amongst much other talk, that very time,
NORTHUMBERLAND:
Come, try upon yourselves what you have seen me.
But what, is Catesby gone?
So please you, sir, their speed
They have a leader,
The son, the husband and the father tearing
Definitively thus I answer you.
A rotten carcass of a boat, not rigg'd,
Now, Tybalt, take the villain back again,
To do that office of thine own good will
No, sir, I say his horse comes, with him on his back.
Pardon me, if you please; if not, I, pleased
A man, the worst about you.
SIR STEPHEN SCROOP:
Where is Nathaniel, Gregory, Philip?
My fingers itch. Wife, we scarce thought us blest
The County Paris hath set up his rest,
Which were inshell'd when Marcius stood for Rome,
The vantage of his anger.
That all the world will be in love with night
Yet for this once, yea, superstitiously,
GLOUCESTER:
her to her heart that she might no more be in danger
As stooping to relieve him: I not doubt
So worthy a gentleman to be her bridegroom?
Now, good my lord,
And you, Sir Walter Herbert, stay with me.
But slow in speech, yet sweet as spring-time flowers:
And venture madly on a desperate mart.
A woeful pageant have we here beheld.
Think that thy babes were fairer than they were,
You will not own it.
GLOUCESTER:
What, wilt thou not? Where is that devil's butcher,
A thing divine, for nothing natural
Of my poor babe, according to thine oath,
O, no, no, no.
Thou art sworn as deeply to effect what we intend
As 'twere triumphing at mine enemies,
And Tybalt calls; and then on Romeo cries,
'Pardon' should be the first word of thy speech.
Have with you.
You should enjoy, were you this country's king,
Let us, that are poor petitioners, speak too:
They, for their truth, might better wear their heads
Even such a woman oweth to her husband;
I the great toe! why the great toe?
About the marriage of the Lady Bona.
The city ports by this hath enter'd and
LADY CAPULET:
For, lords, to-morrow is a busy day.
wife within a mile where my land and living lies;
For them! I cannot do it to the gods;
Second Messenger:
To use my wings. Impute it not a crime
I must away to-day, before night come:
I am come to know your pleasure.
neighbours, is grown into an unspeakable estate.
Longer to live most weary, and present
Destruction straight shall dog them at the heels.
What comfortable hour canst thou name,
sometimes more feet than shoes, or such shoes as my
'O, farewell, Warwick!'
at home; therefore leave us.
Exceeding those that I can wish upon thee,
In a most dear particular. He call'd me father:
HENRY BOLINGBROKE:
I mean our preservation, few in millions
Went all afoot in summer's scalding heat,
But heaven hath a hand in these events,
No, good sir;
Madam, your majesty is too much sad:
To make a shambles of the parliament-house!
What news from Oxford? hold those justs and triumphs?
Still betters what is done. When you speak, sweet.
First Keeper:
I am the greatest, able to do least,
You told not how Henry the Sixth hath lost
3 KING HENRY VI
Gives signal, of a goodly day to-morrow.
O, belike his majesty hath some intent
Upon the grassy carpet of this plain.
that is something stale and hoar ere it be spent.
Throw death upon thy sovereign's enemies.
And, as my fortune ripens with thy love,
To whom do lions cast their gentle looks?
QUEEN MARGARET:
of our two cousins coming into London.
aqua-vitae or some other hot infusion; then, raw as
Allaying both their fury and my passion
A persecutor, I am sure, thou art:
have heard it was ever his manner to do so.
She's dead, deceased, she's dead; alack the day!
But tell the traitor, in the high'st degree
Whose ignorant credulity will not
Either be patient, and entreat me fair,
Which was sometime his general; who loved him
sight of him.
By my hand, I had thought to have strucken him with
Visit both prince and people: therefore, I prithee,
All houses in the suburbs of Vienna must be plucked down.
For who lived king, but I could dig his grave?
Which yet seem shut, we, have but pinn'd with rushes;
Away with the joint-stools, remove the
Their counsels and their cares, digest things rightly
LORD STANLEY:
Yet you are wither'd.
If 'gainst yourself you be incensed, we'll put you,
How will my wife for slaughter of my son
Say that I slew them not?
Though you perceive me not how I give line.
When he hath power to crush? Why, had your bodies
You bid me seek redemption of the devil:
The charges of the action. We have made peace
That's soon perform'd, because I am a subject.
To be spoke to but by the recorder.
Such duty to the drunkard let him do
If Warwick take us we are sure to die.
Such it seems
Thy womb let loose, to chase us to our graves.
Sorely, to say I did; it is as bitter
QUEEN ELIZABETH:
As traitors do.
I thought you had been willing to resign.
SEBASTIAN:
DUCHESS OF YORK:
Now must I hide his body in some hole,
More cruel to your good report than grateful
I am content to hear; for 'tis as easy
Hold, take these keys, and fetch more spices, nurse.
Signior Gremio, came you from the church?
For I will raise her statue in pure gold;
ANTIGONUS:
Thus we set on, Camillo, to the sea-side.
'Faith, my lord. I spoke it but according to the
at that time, overfond of the shepherd's daughter,
But sup them well and look unto them all:
Come, my captain knows you not.
And pray thee take this mercy to provide
Of all the trades in Rome. Look, I am going:
To Coriolanus come all joy and honour!
By him that made us all, I am resolved
Would Katharina had never seen him though!
Our certain death: therefore it is decreed
Lest it should bite its master, and so prove,
Is there no pity sitting in the clouds,
what shame else belongs to't. To him will I present
But I shall laugh at this a twelve-month hence,
It cannot be.
and give out
Unless you please to enter in the castle
Had I been any god of power, I would
If you strike me, you are no gentleman;
Run reeking o'er the lives of men, as if
Thou art the cause, and most accursed effect.
KATHARINA:
Myself disposed to sleep.
Nay, but I know 'tis so: I saw him arrested, saw
Cut off the heads of too fast growing sprays,
Faith, I can tell her age unto an hour.
First, provost, let me bail these gentle three.
Is the king dead? the empire unpossess'd?
PETRUCHIO:
I have bewept a worthy husband's death,
Or with an outstretch'd throat I'll tell the world aloud
And shamed life a hateful.
And there I stood amazed for a while,
Let him that was the cause of this have power
DUKE VINCENTIO:
As being well content with that alone.
I care not what, so it be wholesome food.
manifested effect, I crave but four days' respite;
When it deserves, with characters of brass,
In one respect I'll thy assistant be;
Might thus have stood begetting wonder as
May give you thankful sacrifice.
If I be so disgracious in your sight,
And all my fortunes at thy foot I'll lay
GLOUCESTER:
Such wind as scatters young men through the world,
My lord, she may be a punk; for many of them are
perfecter giber for the table than a necessary
Shall win the wager which we will propose.
Even so; an't please your worship, Brakenbury,
To make a dulcet and a heavenly sound;
Be satisfied, dear God, with our true blood,
Whereby they live: and though that all at once,
DUKE VINCENTIO:
My lord's almost so far transported that
With any but with us.
so that in the beastliest sense you are Pompey the
your pate. I will carry no crotchets: I'll re you,
Fourth Messenger:
of his face sours ripe grapes: when he walks, he
a-wooing, 'Priami,' is my man Tranio, 'regia,'
And ship from thence to Flanders.
Claudio must die to-morrow: let him be furnished
Take hands, a bargain!
If, as his nature is, he fall in rage
True; and therefore women, being the weaker vessels,
Well have you argued, sir; and, for your pains,
In her consists my happiness and thine;
Art thou, indeed?
Have we pass'd through, not without much content
Sir, we have all
And I'll renew me in his fall. But, hark!
If for the last, say ay, and to it, lords.
KATHARINA:
But make you ready your stiff bats and clubs:
Ay, ay, the cords.
Until the elder sister first be wed:
Like to his island girt in with the ocean,
Even in theirs and in the commons' ears,
No, like a bank for love to lie and play on;
We'll never leave till we have hewn thee down,
dying, I with things newborn. Here's a sight for
I can no longer hold me patient.
And put your trial in the villain's mouth
As much as in him lies, from time to time
Neither the king, nor he that loves him best,
Now by my soul, I would it were this hour.
Tybalt, the kinsman of old Capulet,
I'll draw the form and model of our battle,
No quarrel, but a slight contention.
Do not cry havoc, where you should but hunt
Being banish'd for't, he came unto my hearth;
But the queen's kindred and night-walking heralds
And now what rests but, in night's coverture,
That she's the choice love of Signior Gremio.
For which I do discharge you of your office:
Madam, your mother craves a word with you.
Thou shalt be borne to that same ancient vault
This child was prisoner to the womb and is
Lusty and like to live: the queen receives
KING RICHARD III:
Away with her! Poor soul,
I should be guiltier than my guiltiness,
Constrains them weep and shake with fear and sorrow;
Humbling their deities to love, have taken
Cry woe, destruction, ruin and decay:
To cease thy suit, and leave me to my grief:
Barely in title, not in revenue.
What said our cousin when you parted with him?
Than to be pitied of thee. Prithee, bring me
Thou want'st a rough pash and the shoots that I have,
How many years a mortal man may live.
When Richmond was a little peevish boy.
The bruit thereof will bring you many friends.
We must supplant those rough rug-headed kerns,
Come, gentlemen, let's all go visit him:
By marrying her which I must reach unto.
Lo, as at English feasts, so I regreet
And pluck the mangled Tybalt from his shroud?
duke to be wise.
Riddling confession finds but riddling shrift.
A man, as you are.
I do not like the man: had he been lay, my lord
Nay, then indeed she cannot choose but hate thee,
I'll muster up my friends, and meet your grace
First Gentleman:
that they cannot at ease on the old bench? O, their
And meet me presently at Salisbury.
Grumio, my horse.
Before sunrising, lest his son George fall
I have seen them in the church together: God send
Troth, and your bum is the greatest thing about you;
But meditating with two deep divines;
FRIAR LAURENCE:
Do more than counterpoise a full third part
It is Lord Angelo.
The truth of your own seeming; that you may--
I think there is not in the world either malice or
I prithee, noble friend, home to thy house;
No, my good lord.
With cautelous baits and practise.
If from me he have wholesome beverage,
Provoke us hither now to slaughter thee.
PRINCE EDWARD:
me to 't. But they say the duke will be here
PETRUCHIO:
This virtue and this moral discipline,
In this I'll be impartial; be you judge
KING RICHARD II:
Nurse, where's my daughter? call her forth to me.
How! will she none? doth she not give us thanks?
Let me be ta'en, let me be put to death;
Second Huntsman:
Or shall we on the helmets of our foes
Why, how now, Claudio! whence comes this restraint?
Will wing me to some wither'd bough and there
To make this shameless callet know herself.
The blood I drop is rather physical
And do him right that, answering one foul wrong,
To see you so attired, sworn, I think,
A mark so bloody on the business, but
Tell him he must awake, and that quickly too.
Let's along.
BRAKENBURY:
Mistress Bianca, bless you with such grace
Thy father! O villain! he is a sailmaker in Bergamo.
The shadow or your face.
Thou art perfect then, our ship hath touch'd upon
We are the greater poll, and in true fear
What ugly sights of death within mine eyes!
But that his negligence, his folly, fear,
I did not well I meant well. All my services
I am as ignorant in that as you
And yet your fair discourse hath been as sugar,
Being in night, all this is but a dream,
That glues my lips and will not let me speak.
For Angelo,
Come, come, you're mocking: we will have no telling.
down, an a' were lustier than he is, and twenty such
Hear you the news abroad?
Would, with themselves, shut up my thoughts: I find
What's this? what's this?
You saw my master wink and laugh upon you?
The pale moon shines by night:
Give me some present counsel, or, behold,
'Twixt you there's difference; but the fall of either
day's journey.
Third Citizen:
process-server, a bailiff; then he compassed a
It be to do thee service.
It is fifteen years since I saw my country: though
Real necessities, and give way the while
Fancies too weak for boys, too green and idle
And made what work I pleased: 'tis not my blood
But, God be thank'd, there's no need of me,
Thyself a queen, for me that was a queen,
AUTOLYCUS:
First Huntsman:
Find shapes of grief, more than himself, to wail;
The wager thou hast won; and I will add
If yet your gentle souls fly in the air
Gloves as sweet as damask roses;
But what's his offence?
Now, messenger, what letters or what news
I could beat forty of them.
Thy buried fear: herein all breathless lies
Such pity as my rapier's point affords.
If to either, thou dost ill.
Is't not a kind of incest, to take life
Into this chiefest thicket of the park.
I mean the Earl of Wiltshire, Bushy, Green.
I something do excuse the thing I hate,
Than a great queen, with this condition,
Yet, ere thou go, but answer me one doubt,
I must and will have Katharina to my wife.
ARCHIDAMUS:
DUKE VINCENTIO:
I pray the gods she may with all my heart!
As we are mock'd with art.
And, ere my knee rise from the earth's cold face,
Holloa me like a hare.
You say well.
Even to the guilt or the purgation.
PETRUCHIO:
Nathaniel's coat, sir, was not fully made,
He be as miserably slain as I.
How now, fair shepherd!
The ground is bloody; search about the churchyard:
with the horse upon her, how he beat me because
Marry, this Claudio is condemned for untrussing.
Must I go show them my unbarbed sconce?
Sigh'd truer breath; but that I see thee here,
I'll draw the curtain:
And punish them to your height of pleasure.
Thou hast a lady far more beautiful
That which but seems unlike: 'tis not impossible
'Tis so with me. Let us withdraw together,
And pardon us the interruption
O ho, Petruchio! Tranio hits you now.
Yes, marry, did I but I was fain to forswear it;
And fawn on rage with base humility,
Second Keeper:
Nor I, but stoop with patience to my fortune.
Upon my daughter's head! Tell me, mine own.
And twangling Jack; with twenty such vile terms,
That Angelo's a murderer; is 't not strange?
He was a man; this, in respect, a child:
KING HENRY VI:
That I should fear to die? Therefore proceed.
not too late now.
Of their own choice: one's Junius Brutus,
Now death shall stop his dismal threatening sound,
First Lady:
If that my cousin king be King of England,
But now you partly may perceive my mind.
And plant your joys in living Edward's throne.
And says a wizard told him that by G
Ascend her chamber, hence and comfort her:
Who, as I hear, mean to solicit him
GLOUCESTER:
KATHARINA:
But fettle your fine joints 'gainst Thursday next,
'Then music with her silver sound
The petty rebel, dull-brain'd Buckingham,
He bow'd his nature, never known before
any in Rome.
But time will not permit: all is uneven,
friend of mine.
Another bear the ewer, the third a diaper,
That ever lived.
You have received many wounds for your country.
What, art thou afraid?
It cannot be; for when I parted with him,
Many for many virtues excellent,
QUEEN MARGARET:
As there is sense in truth and truth in virtue,
I pray God he be not, I say.
dish of some three-pence; your honours have seen
Confess thy treasons ere thou fly the realm;
As beaten hence by your strange lunacy.
And put on sullen black incontinent:
and the bear mocked him, both roaring louder than
Who sues to thee and cries 'God save the queen'?
Tickled with good success, disdains the shadow
I fear, I fear 'twill prove a troublous world.
Than drops of blood were in my father's veins.
I know her answer.
And bow my knee before his majesty:
Which will not prove a whip: as many coxcombs
Give me thy gold, if thou hast any gold:
That wench is stark mad or wonderful froward.
come into any room in a tap-house, but I am drawn
O, welcome, Oxford! for we want thy help.
A liberal rewarder of his friends:
Graybeard, thy love doth freeze.
To ear the land that hath some hope to grow,
Farewell, dear father!
I must indeed; and therefore came I hither.
'Tis this slave;--
Where she at least is banish'd from your eye,
Thus thrust disorderly into my hands,
Of all my buried ancestors are packed:
Thou shalt be logger-head. Good faith, 'tis day:
Did my heart love till now? forswear it, sight!
By strangling thee in her accursed womb
If, in thy wisdom, thou canst give no help,
Faith, nothing; but has left me here behind, to
Unless, by not so doing, our good city
KING RICHARD III:
In good time.
shoulder-bone; how he cried to me for help and said
could have been to him and then your blood had been
Where you shall find me well accompanied
He's sentenced; 'tis too late.
Which his triumphant father's hand had won;
If not, my senses, better pleased with madness,
For I ne'er saw true beauty till this night.
And wilt thou learn of me?
Scorning whate'er you can afflict me with.
congealed ice; that I know to be true: and he is a
HORTENSIO:
Than death prorogued, wanting of thy love.
Long as my exile, sweet as my revenge!
Far be the thought of this from Henry's heart,
To bathe in fiery floods, or to reside
If you first sinn'd with us and that with us
would be glad to receive some instruction from my
And to 't they go like lightning, for, ere I
My waned state for Henry's regal crown.
PETRUCHIO:
My lord; I do confess I ne'er was married;
He smiles, and says his Edward is install'd;
GLOUCESTER:
cushion, or to be entombed in an ass's pack-
With manacles thorough our streets, or else
Yea, distaff-women manage rusty bills
franklins say it, I'll swear it.
To tell you plain, I had rather lie in prison.
For shame, bring Juliet forth; her lord is come.
blind bow-boy's butt-shaft: and is he a man to
Well, go thy ways, old lad; for thou shalt ha't.
sleekly combed their blue coats brushed and their
I think he will carry this island home in his pocket
Show me thy humble heart, and not thy knee,
The rashness of a woman: he is touch'd
Your company to the Capitol; where, I know,
No excuse current, but to hang thyself.
novelty is only in request; and it is as dangerous
Say 'better:' here comes one of my master's kinsmen.
Yond crickets shall not hear it.
There on the ground, with his own tears made drunk.
Come, come, we fear the worst; all shall be well.
Now take upon me, in the name of Time,
His curses, then from bitterness of soul
How fares our cousin, noble Lord of York?
Know man from man? dispute his own estate?
By this time, had the king permitted us,
He's with the king your father.
His barbed steeds to stables, and his heart
When Oxford had me down, he rescued me,
For which I would not plead, but that I must;
GLOUCESTER:
Nothing but thunder! Merciful Heaven,
Be ready, Claudio, for your death tomorrow.
But say, what to thine old news?
DUKE VINCENTIO:
And never show thy head by day nor light.
Clarence and Gloucester, love my lovely queen;
As you, Lord Angelo, have still appear'd,
That makes these odds all even.
O, then began the tempest to my soul,
Is Clarence dead? the order was reversed.
'Tis rigor and not law. Your honours all,
my brother; whose loss of his most precious queen
It was. What sadness lengthens Romeo's hours?
Which the air beats for vain. O place, O form,
No way to fly, nor strength to hold out flight:
I hold you as a thing ensky'd and sainted.
Speak like a true knight, so defend thee heaven!
Why, what should you fear?
well that prays for peace.
Upon my part shall be unviolable.
AUTOLYCUS:
I heard you say, 'Is not my arm of length,
It cannot fail but by
Taking thy part, hath rush'd aside the law,
Out of the dukedom and confer fair Milan
But no more deep will I endart mine eye
More sins for this forgiveness prosper may.
nine that I know.
Without a burthen: time as long again
Are at our backs; and therefore hence amain.
What manner of fellow was he that robbed you?
For one that scorn'd at me, now scorn'd of me;
PETRUCHIO:
Were testimonies against his worth and credit
And strip myself to death, as to a bed
Whate'er it be, be thou still like thyself,
To try her gracious fortune with Lord Angelo
How now? moody?
Come, enter with us. Ladies, you deserve
We shall entreat you to abide here till he come and
Father, you cannot disinherit me:
What I have written to you?
there's all the love they bear us.
Though banish'd, yet a trueborn Englishman.
KING RICHARD III:
'Hic ibat,' as I told you before, 'Simois,' I am
KATHARINA:
To men in joy; but grief makes one hour ten.
Already; and, as I hear, the provost hath
What, my lord?
So they are;
Believe me, lord, I think he cannot choose.
Third Citizen:
What's o'clock, think you?
So may you lose your arms:
Now the gods keep you!
Either thou art most ignorant by age,
But yet not stay, entreat me how you can.
I am hurt.
See this dispatch'd with all the haste thou canst:
'Twas I that gave the kingdom to thy brother.
Thou dost beguile me! Was this face the face
'Tis set down so in heaven, but not in earth.
You'll see your Rome embraced with fire before
O just but severe law!
But, as 'tis,
And all this day an unaccustom'd spirit
Be such a gosling to obey instinct, but stand,
And he that will not fight for such a hope.
He thinks me now incapable; confederates--
apples. But come; since this bar in law makes us
For thine own bowels, which do call thee sire,
The prince your son, with mere conceit and fear
Now for the rebels which stand out in Ireland,
I wish you now, then;
Come, bitter conduct, come, unsavoury guide!
parcel of their feast, and to be executed ere they
Even in condition of the worst degree,
CORIOLANUS:
Instinctively had quit it: there they hoist us,
Stern Falconbridge commands the narrow seas;
'Twas you that kill'd young Rutland, was it not?
and therein am I constant to my profession.
Warm and new kill'd.
Master lieutenant, pray you, by your leave,
Thou, brother Montague, in Buckingham,
I am the last of noble Edward's sons,
fellow. Has he any unbraided wares?
And if thy poor devoted suppliant may
The napless vesture of humility;
confessed and lamented by the king, how
Before I freely speak my mind herein,
Open their congeal'd mouths and bleed afresh!
Ah, that thy father had been so resolved!
What was your dream? I long to hear you tell it.
Were it but told you, should be hooted at
deceiving promises of life; which I by my good
Set foot under thy table: tut, a toy!
First Senator:
But my entreaty too.
As or by oath remove or counsel shake
Landlord of England art thou now, not king:
Above a better gone, so must thy grave
The marigold, that goes to bed wi' the sun
You'll not endure him! God shall mend my soul!
Because you know, my lord, my mother lives.
ANTIGONUS:
Why speaks my father so ungently? This
Did you such a thing?
I blame not her, she could say little less;
As o'er-dyed blacks, as wind, as waters, false
Too good to be so and too bad to live,
And cannot now accept; to grace him only
If so, then be not tongue-tied: go with me.
Nothing goes right: we would, and we would not.
For Warwick and his friends, God and Saint George!
What a pestilent knave is this same!
KING RICHARD III:
To have you royally appointed as if
To be received plain, I'll speak more gross:
First, he commends him to your noble lordship.
Our fatherless distress was left unmoan'd;
I will tell you
Ties up my tongue, and will not let me speak.
God save your majesty! and well met, gentlemen:
PETRUCHIO:
O upright, just, and true-disposing God,
detects him: 'tis a blushing shamefast spirit that
So many miles upon her peaceful bosom,
His bloody brow! O Jupiter, no blood!
Ay, by any means prove a tall fellow: if I do not
But how or in what place I do not know.
Ay; and that thou and the proudest of you all shall
And I will love thee, and prefer thee too.
To the people; not by your own instruction,
though not personal, have been royally attorneyed
Thinking upon his services, took from you
Let's hence, and hear
Then cursed she Hastings, then cursed she Buckingham,
Good madam,--
I see, as in a map, the end of all.
For that which thou hast heard me speak to-night
Than what I know, yet shall the oracle
Compare dead happiness with living woe;
The shepherd knows not thunder from a tabour
KING HENRY VI:
Where's Romeo's man? what can he say in this?
To meet you at the Tower and welcome you.
QUEEN ELIZABETH:
And offer me disguised in sober robes
him: he had, sir, a kind of face, methought,--I
That Rome should dote on: yet, by the faith of men,
Lets along.
Marry, and will, my lord, with all my heart.
And I nothing to back my suit at all,
And then I ran away to call the watch.
What ever have been thought on in this state,
LADY GREY:
O happy vantage of a kneeling knee!
Nay, take away this scolding crookback rather.
Fear not, sweet wench, they shall not touch
Where the devil should this Romeo be?
And cannot live but to thy shame, unless
Heavens bless my lord from fell Aufidius!
But little thinks we shall be of her council:
What then?
Warwick may lose, that now hath won the day.
Alas, that Warwick had no more forecast,
And told him of those triumphs held at Oxford.
Sir, I will serve him; for I do find your hangman is
Edward Plantagenet, arise a knight;
Whereto my finger, like a dial's point,
Two, two; a shirt and a smock.
You, the great toe of this assembly?
How now, my hardy, stout resolved mates!
have worn your eyes almost out in the service, you
Before this out-dared dastard? Ere my tongue
Most miserable hour that e'er time saw
Your colder reasons.
Which makes me sweat with wrath. Come on, my fellows:
The shapes of beasts upon them: Jupiter
Take this along; I writ it for thy sake
Unless you will accompany me thither.
Therefore a health to all that shot and miss'd.
not bid him cut it to pieces: ergo, thou liest.
I'll wait upon your lordship.
But when your carters or your waiting-vassals
For many men that stumble at the threshold
His absolute 'shall'?
certain that when he makes water his urine is
DUCHESS OF YORK:
Be hostages for Rome.
But, sirs, be sudden in the execution,
Arm, arm, my lord; the foe vaunts in the field.
More are men's ends mark'd than their lives before:
Which is that Barnardine?
From which even here I slip my weary neck,
Away, sir! you must go.
How now, what news with you?
Believe this crack to be in my dread mistress,
If she do bid me pack, I'll give her thanks,
Is doom'd a prisoner by proud Bolingbroke:
When Biondello comes, he waits on thee;
O Richard! York is too far gone with grief,
Look forward on the journey you shall go.
Ay, and amid this hurly I intend
Thy tears would wash this cold congealed blood
send for certain of my creditors: and yet, to say
If these shows be not outward, which of you
BIONDELLO:
And, for an entrance to my entertainment,
Madam, if't please the queen to send the babe,
As many as you please.
I think, this coming summer, the King of Sicilia
pedlar, by education a cardmaker, by transmutation a
And makes a god of such a cullion:
Within rich Pisa walls, as any one
Who knows not that?
Or, like obedient subjects, follow him
rest of the herd to me that all their other senses
Why, that's all one.
Should now eat up her own!
KING RICHARD III:
'Tis all one, I will show myself a tyrant: when I
I am in all affected as yourself;
Nay, not so neither: but I take him to be the
See you yond coign o' the Capitol, yond
It is a quarrel just and reasonable,
That come before the swallow dares, and take
cork into a hogshead. And then for the
As ever oak or stone was sound.
As Jove himself does, Jove would ne'er be quiet,
I do protest, I never injured thee,
On your command.
O Ned, sweet Ned! speak to thy mother, boy!
Which the dark night hath so discovered.
Wait you on him, I charge you, as becomes,
Let them affright thee. I beseech thee, youth,
Why did you wish me milder? would you have me
POLIXENES:
As the last taste of sweets, is sweetest last,
Think I am dead and that even here thou takest,
Of fair demesnes, youthful, and nobly train'd,
And therefore level not to hit their lives.
Withal obdurate, do not hear him plead;
Will not proclaim against her maiden loss,
And not till then.
Signior Baptista, will you be so strange?
That ever wretched age hath look'd upon.
But where is Kate? I stay too long from her:
For one being sued to, one that humbly sues;
Pursued my humour not pursuing his,
The harder match'd, the greater victory:
Would say your head and butt were head and horn.
KING RICHARD III:
I'll claim that promise at your grace's hands.
What! was it you that would be England's king?
She shall, Lucentio. Come, gentlemen, let's go.
HENRY BOLINGBROKE:
First Citizen:
Disorder, horror, fear and mutiny
And he our subjects' next degree in hope.
And there die strangled ere my Romeo comes?
PETRUCHIO:
BIONDELLO:
He neither does nor shall.
BUCKINGHAM:
Methinks, 'tis prize enough to be his son.
To strew him o'er and o'er!
I wis it is not half way to her heart;
And tell false Edward, thy supposed king,
Would seem but modest: therefore, I beseech you
And young affection gapes to be his heir;
Which was as gross as ever touch'd conjecture,
I crave no other, nor no better man.
I will be married to a wealthy widow,
'Now take them up,' quoth he, 'if any list.'
Up with my tent there! Valiant gentlemen,
In me it seems it will make wise men mad.
I do not say 'thwack our general;' but he was always
And her withholds from me and other more,
Where did you dwell when I was King of England?
Repair to the senate-house.
Was not incensed by his subtle mother
LADY CAPULET:
Some god o' the island. Sitting on a bank,
Of honourable reckoning are you both;
Of one I danced withal.
The letter was not nice but full of charge
First Citizen:
What his breast forges, that his tongue must vent;
And be not peevish-fond in great designs.
I will not marry yet; and, when I do, I swear,
It is the east, and Juliet is the sun.
I, that am curtail'd of this fair proportion,
Be intelligent to me: 'tis thereabouts;
HENRY BOLINGBROKE:
POLIXENES:
Sir, most heedfully.
Is yet unanswer'd. I will to your father:
Became two spouts: the fury spent, anon
But as a discontented friend, grief-shot
Come, let's away. When, Caius, Rome is thine,
Tell me, thou villain slave, where are my children?
Nay, I hear nothing: his mother and his wife
Or seek for rule, supremacy and sway,
Bohemia stays here longer.
And harmful pity must be laid aside.
I should to Plashy too;
The grandchild to her blood. But, out, affection!
Shuts up his windows, locks far daylight out
Stand to me in this cause. O mother! wife!
For both our sakes, I would that word were true.
And, in this rage, with some great kinsman's bone,
Messenger:
how honour would become such a person. that it was
The deed you undertake is damnable.
Here is a gentleman whom by chance I met,
Had thy brethren here, their lives and thine
but I thought there was more in him than I could think.
And takes her farewell of the glorious sun!
When he did stand for consul, which he lost
I told you. Lord Angelo, belike thinking me remiss
Say, then: 'tis true, I ought so.
And he shall feel mine edge.
How doth my dear morsel, thy mistress? Procures she
Hence, old goat!
SEBASTIAN:
KING RICHARD II:
The blessed gods
And many more of noble fame and worth:
The hostess of the meeting: pray you, bid
The one as famous for a scolding tongue
BUCKINGHAM:
Therefore we will disperse ourselves: farewell.
KING RICHARD II:
Wherein thou seest me mask'd; for thy revenge
Five have I slain to-day instead of him.
Hail to you both!
For nothing had begot my something grief;
Not a word: if you have any thing to say to me,
As thou canst yield a melancholy seat!
Come, therefore, let's about it speedily.
Wherefore, gentle maiden,
Worthy Camillo,
O, pardon, that I name them! Your high self,
KING RICHARD II:
That's my brave boy!
That this is true, father, behold his blood.
Be patient, gentle Earl of Westmoreland.
In that I live and for that will I die.
And that the people of this blessed land
But if black scandal or foul-faced reproach
With patience, noble lord, as prisoners must:
That seeming to be most which we indeed least are.
Very well.
my discretion so weakly. Will you laugh
bear-herd, and now by present profession a tinker?
We did believe no less.
And leave your brothers to go speed elsewhere.
KING EDWARD IV:
Wish we all joy and honour.
I'll not be tied to hours nor 'pointed times,
About their functions friendly.
As surely as I live, my lord.
Condemning some to death, and some to exile;
In leads or oils? what old or newer torture
Good Norfolk, hie thee to thy charge;
He seems to be the more noble in being fantastical:
When they are gone, then must I count my gains.
Was't you that revell'd in our parliament,
She would to each one sip. You are retired,
QUEEN ELIZABETH:
And to my brother turn my blushing cheeks.
We cannot keep the town.
'Tis deeds must win the prize; and he of both
Come all to help him, and so stop the air
The cruelty and envy of the people,
To raise my state to title of a queen,
beef: ne'er ask me what raiment I'll wear; for I
The standing of his body.
First Gentleman:
Uncle, my brother mocks both you and me;
Second Citizen:
First, you know Caius Marcius is chief enemy to the people.
Pots, and, I think, forty more; all great doers in
But, madam, where is Warwick then become?
To draw the brats of Clarence out of sight;
HENRY BOLINGBROKE:
no stronger than a nutshell and as leaky as an
Apollo would, this being indeed the issue
Alack, alack, that heaven should practise stratagems
him our commission; talk no more.
I'll send some packing that yet think not on it.
Pardon me, good father; it is against my oath.
Who builds his hopes in air of your good looks,
And charged us from his soul to love each other,
One pain is lessen'd by another's anguish;
He that will give good words to thee will flatter
If it? please your honour, I know not well what they
Sir, let me be so bold as ask you,
My ladies both, good day to you.
The wild waves whist,
But did you not request to have it cut?
A torch for me: let wantons light of heart
once to all the points o' the compass.
Where's Richard gone?
Yet parted but the shadow with his hand.
At thy good heart's oppression.
How does my father? Gentles, methinks you frown:
I have not yet made known to Mariana
He should have found his uncle Gaunt a father,
Good queen, my lord,
no better than picture-like to hang by the wall, if
For stony limits cannot hold love out,
Vagabond exile, raying, pent to linger
Alas, alas!
hath been since an ape-bearer; then a
And frantic outrage, end thy damned spleen;
GLOUCESTER:
My careless father fondly gave away'?
Ha, ha, ha! So, you're paid.
To worry lambs and lap their gentle blood,
In any proportion or in any language.
Seal up the mouth of outrage for a while,
Ay, but the case is alter'd:
A herald, Kate? O, put me in thy books!
now. I shall crave your forbearance a little: may
What says he of our marriage? what of that?
And this thy son's blood cleaving to my blade
also, to smell out work for the other senses. I see
Richmond! When last I was at Exeter,
Of tyranny and will ignoble make you,
March to assault thy country than to tread--
innocence, which seems much, to justify him, but a
First Senator:
And then I know after who comes by the worst.
May happily bring forth. But who comes here?
LORD FITZWATER:
To reach at victory above my head,
Is thither gone, to crave the French king's sister
Not so; even through the hollow eyes of death
He would not answer to: forbad all names;
I cannot tarry: I knew a wench married in an
CORIOLANUS:
How! bribe me?
3 KING HENRY VI
Come, Hastings, help me to my closet.
Wrapp'd in sweet clothes, rings put upon his fingers,
Thou art a traitor and a miscreant,
crutches ere he was born desire yet their life to
Whether I blush or no: howbeit, I thank you.
When she was young you woo'd her; now in age
And bakes the elflocks in foul sluttish hairs,
Stars, stars,
Mark your divorce, young sir,
As you shall well be satisfied withal.
Which to recure, we heartily solicit
A word of this. What, ho! within! come forth!
I dare no longer stay.
That it becomes a virtue.
It is required
As thou report'st thyself, wast then her servant;
Nay, now dispatch; 'twas I that stabb'd young Edward,
And mar the seeds within! Lift up thy looks:
No more of him; he is a worthy man: make way, they
I would your highness would depart the field:
We were dissever'd: hastily lead away.
Of blessed sanctuary! not for all this land
Darest thou, thou little better thing than earth,
Must it be violent, and as he does conceive
Of ever angry bears: it was a torment
O, thou didst prophesy the time would come
What's he that knocks as he would beat down the gate?
Well, what then?
Who, not the duke? yes, your beggar of fifty; and
business, and I will merrily accompany you home.
Be blamed for't how you might.
Aumerle that was;
Second Servant:
Sir, at the farthest for a week or two:
Could all but answer for that peevish brat?
Men judge by the complexion of the sky
Second Messenger:
But chiefly to take thence from her dead finger
As with the meat, some undeserved fault
I cry thee mercy:
To ally my rages and revenges with
So wildly?
That we may bring you something on the way.
Seeing too much sadness hath congeal'd your blood,
they do not give us the lie.
He is frank'd up to fatting for his pains
The scatter'd foe that hopes to rise again;
Prithee, be my present partner in this business, and
I am an officer of state, and come
Day, night, hour, tide, time, work, play,
No longer staying but to give the mother
How fares my brother? why is he so sad?
Since arm from arm that voice doth us affray,
With some men else, who think themselves as safe
On this fair corse; and, as the custom is,
Nay, rather, good my lords, be second to me:
PETRUCHIO:
Can change their moons and bring their times about
Edward will always bear himself as king:
it, of you and rosemary, that it would do you good
Hath Romeo slain himself? say thou but 'I,'
And thus expiring do foretell of him:
O, who can hold a fire in his hand
Cannot be cured by words; therefore be still.
To the most of men this is a Caliban
With customary compliment; when he,
This deadly quarrel daily doth beget!
And we will both together to the Tower,
PETRUCHIO:
Amongst the loving Welshmen canst procure,
Why, he that wears her like a medal, hanging
Be certain what you do, sir, lest your justice
They needs must show themselves; which
not been common in my love. I will, sir, flatter my
Slander to the state! Away with him to prison!
Could man so blench?
AUTOLYCUS:
The rather for I now must make you know
BARNARDINE:
A crown for York! and, lords, bow low to him:
It cannot countervail the exchange of joy
Pardon it;
Most manifest, and not denied by himself.
And flaky darkness breaks within the east.
KING RICHARD III:
We would as willingly give cure as know.
Scratches with briers,
Henry of Hereford, Lancaster, and Derby,
Provost, a word with you.
For thou are pleasant, gamesome, passing courteous,
Do you not hear him? You mar our labour: keep your
You will be welcome with this intelligence, Nicanor.
Are you all resolved to give your voices? But
Accept my thankfulness.
The gods be good unto us!
First Watchman:
Abase foul stone, made precious by the foil
And learn to make a body of a limb.
Is not this suit of mine, that thou declare
And yet so fast asleep.
Nay, whom they shall obey, and love thee too,
And that dead saint which then I weeping follow'd;
While I use further conference with Warwick.
Murdering impossibility, to make
every wink of an eye some new grace will be born:
My banquet is to close our stomachs up,
So did we all. But, come, let's home.
Cut off by course of justice,--
Thy brother's love, our duty, and thy fault,
He something seems unsettled.
Depose him in the justice of his cause.
Have utter'd truth: which if you seek to prove,
to prison! lay bolts enough upon him: let him
KATHARINA:
Full half an hour.
Let us entreat you stay till after dinner.
No settled senses of the world can match
I would to God my heart were flint, like Edward's;
Come, go, good Juliet,
Take leave and part; for you must part forthwith.
Now thou art gone, we have no staff, no stay.
And hereabouts he dwells,--which late I noted
O, swear not by the moon, the inconstant moon,
Romeo! my cousin Romeo!
Unto the sovereign mercy of the king;
Ay, my lord; even so
And come to Padua, careless of your life?
Muster'd my soldiers, gather'd flocks of friends,
broiled and eaten him too.
No good at all that I can do for him;
DUKE VINCENTIO:
By my white beard,
Go, Lovel, with all speed to Doctor Shaw;
Who had, no doubt, some noble creature in her,
O, if I wake, shall I not be distraught,
I got them in my country's service, when
And I would have it suddenly perform'd.
HENRY BOLINGBROKE:
kersey boot-hose on the other, gartered with a red
The gates of Milan, and, i' the dead of darkness,
KING RICHARD II:
Open the gates; we are King Henry's friends.
Whom stripes may move, not kindness! I have used thee,
I'll hear no more: die, prophet in thy speech:
King Edward's fruit, true heir to the English crown.
O think'st thou we shall ever meet again?
First will I see the coronation;
These rural latches to his entrance open,
Against all noble sufferance.
How doth my lady? Is my father well?
For him thou labour'st by thy flight to shun
Where is kind Hastings, Rivers, Vaughan, Grey?
Force her hence.
'Faith, some certain dregs of conscience are yet
And tell him where I stay: give the like notice
She may help you to many fair preferments,
Or I am much deceived, cuckolds ere now;
And learn me how to lose a winning match,
No, nor a man that fears you less than he,
Why, this was moulded on a porringer;
What proclamation, man?
And Cytherea all in sedges hid,
That it may enter butcher Mowbray's breast!
Let him thank me, that holp to send him thither;
Go in, Bianca:
The fardel there? what's i' the fardel?
First Lady:
Nay, when? strike now, or else the iron cools.
Which to this hour bewail the injury,
A gentle cousin, were it light enough.
Look, here's the warrant, Claudio, for thy death:
And by good fortune I have lighted well
And all my armour laid into my tent?
To give him annual tribute, do him homage,
Howsoever you have been his liar, as you say you
By holy Laurence to fall prostrate here,
Of Phoebus' burning kisses: such a pother
If I must not, I need not be barren of accusations;
Or to their own perdition.
For me, that I may surely keep mine oath,
BALTHASAR:
Here in this country, where we now remain.
I moralize two meanings in one word.
In every mess have folly and the feeders
The resignation of thy state and crown
my son Coriolanus: guess, but by my entertainment
LADY CAPULET:
Grace to stand, and virtue go;
What! has your king married the Lady Grey!
Adoptedly; as school-maids change their names
Lord Marshal:
But let him say so then, and let him go;
He may command me as my sovereign;
The violent fit o' the time craves it as physic
I never saw a vessel of like sorrow,
But, that I'll give my voice on Richard's side,
Which sounded like a clamour in a vault,
And that be heir to his unhappiness!
To make prescription for a kingdom's worth.
We thank your honour.
Saw you no more? mark'd you not how her sister
seemed sorrow wept to take leave of them, for their
I, in probation of a sisterhood,
Come I appellant to this princely presence.
That Lucentio indeed had Baptista's youngest daughter.
upon the table and says 'God send me no need of
Though fortune's malice overthrow my state,
And now, to soothe your forgery and his,
I tell thee, fellow,
For hither we have broken in by force.
The red rose and the white are on his face,
Grim death, how foul and loathsome is thine image!
Gloucester and Buckingham.
Or wrath or craft may get him.
Go, sound thy trumpet in the market-place;
Whose soul is that which takes her heavy leave?
That, like an eagle in a dove-cote, I
And bloody steel grasp'd in their ireful hands,
Persuade the queen to send the Duke of York
Bliss and goodness on you!
First Gentleman:
If he be leaden, icy-cold, unwilling,
I'll to my rest.
What early tongue so sweet saluteth me?
Look, how thou dream'st! I say again, give out
I'll pawn the little blood which I have left
Your tributary drops belong to woe,
That will the king severely prosecute
FRIAR LAURENCE:
LADY CAPULET:
What canst thou swear by now?
O piteous spectacle! O bloody times!
O! we are spoiled and--yonder he is: deny him,
And by the royalties of both your bloods,
That I in all despite might rail at him,
Turn thee, Benvolio, look upon thy death.
And what hear there for welcome but my groans?
To most that teach.
The air breathes upon us here most sweetly.
Pity, you ancient stones, those tender babes
Measured to look upon you; whom he loves--
You lose a thousand well-disposed hearts
With great creating nature.
Ay, with my sword. What! think'st thou that we fear them?
PETRUCHIO:
Fortune speed us!
That tempers him to this extremity.
The latter end of his commonwealth forgets the
Give me some ink and paper in my tent
Without a parallel; those being all my study,
For men so old as we to keep the peace.
The same, sir.
Sinfully pluck'd, and not a man of you
Infer the bastardy of Edward's children:
But you are more inhuman, more inexorable,
Which, I presume, he'll take in gentle part.
So be thy fortune in this royal fight!
Those whose great power must try him; even this,
We see the very wreck that we must suffer;
Thou hast said enough.
For better times to come. Friar, advise him;
Good day, Camillo.
O, serve me well, and teach yourselves that duty!
Now, by my sceptre's awe, I make a vow,
To threaten me with death is most unlawful.
He shall well know
Be perfect.
For Rome, towards Marcius.
Who ever would have thought it? Romeo!
But now 'tis odds beyond arithmetic;
Shall sweet Bianca practise how to bride it?
And power i' the truth o' the cause.
In thrilling region of thick-ribbed ice;
O, mickle is the powerful grace that lies
Messenger:
would be sorry should be thus foolishly lost at a
For she is good, hath brought you forth a daughter;
Her eldest sister is so curst and shrewd
Thou let'st thy fortune sleep--die, rather; wink'st
And wet his grave with my repentant tears,
Would sing her song and dance her turn; now here,
Thus doth he force the swords of wicked men
And I will pamper it with lamentations.
Shall Romeo by my letters know our drift,
That is my office, for my father's sake.
Unto the shore, to ask those on the banks
Is but a little way above our heads,
O, ho! entreat her!
Belike, some noble gentleman that means,
Therefore stay yet; thou need'st not to be gone.
On both sides more respect.
He would not seem to know me.
Up in my heart; which I have given already,
And not provoked by any suitor else;
Reason; because they then less need one another.
It shall be what o'clock I say it is.
Here comes your father; tell him so yourself,
Methinks I so should term them, and the reverence
KING RICHARD III:
Respect to your great place! and let the devil
Keep law and form and due proportion,
And in his needy shop a tortoise hung,
You soothed not, therefore hurt not: but
Write in the dust this sentence with thy blood,
And that will quickly dry thy melting tears.
This precious stone set in the silver sea,
All Conspirators:
Although by confiscation they are ours,
I would your spirit were easier for advice,
But now, Baptists, to your younger daughter:
Ancient damnation! O most wicked fiend!
As Harry Duke of Hereford, were he here.
For sleeping England long time have I watch'd;
prepared. I am made to understand that you have
Reward did threaten and encourage him,
But sun it is not, when you say it is not;
Although they were flesh'd villains, bloody dogs,
In base appliances. This outward-sainted deputy,
I shame to hear thee speak. Ah, timorous wretch!
uncle Capulet, his wife and daughters; my fair niece
shall see how I'll handle her.
In that you brook it in, it makes him worse:
Whereby my son is disinherited.
And make her airy tongue more hoarse than mine,
Is the argument of Time. Of this allow,
Which woo'd the slimy bottom of the deep,
It lies much in your holding up. Haste you speedily
Sleep for a week; for the next night, I warrant,
Where is my mother! why, she is within;
Forswear themselves as often as they speak:
That Clarence is so harsh, so blunt, unnatural,
And therefore have I little talk'd of love;
If this foul deed were by to equal it:
His name! as if I knew not his name: I have brought
Great nature cries 'Deny not.' let the Volsces
Edward and Clarence. O, what cause have I,
We do, sir; tell us what hath brought you to't.
Even for your son's sake; and thereby for sealing
Honest as either, to purge him of that humour
And live with Richmond, from the reach of hell
Shot from the deadly level of a gun,
Which with usurping steps do trample thee:
So shall you share all that he doth possess,
Fie, fie, thou shamest thy shape, thy love, thy wit;
I dare be sworn
Hic steterat Priami regia celsa senis.'
KATHARINA:
Bred his hopes out of.
I have loved thee,--
Be born another such.
Where is he? call him hither.
Welcome, destruction, death, and massacre!
Concern me the reporting.
To satisfy your highness and the entreaties
And I from heaven banish'd as from hence!
To pray for them that have done scathe to us.
I pray you, be acquainted with this maid;
KING EDWARD IV:
No, Bolingbroke: if ever I were traitor,
Why, so! then am I sure of victory.
So then the Volsces stand but as at first,
Farewell, my Hector, and my Troy's true hope.
Tybalt, Mercutio, the prince expressly hath
And never will I undertake the thing
Come, son, away; we may not linger thus.
I' the war do grow together: grant that, and tell me,
Ay, to such mercy as his ruthless arm,
And women too, but innocent and pure;
There, Coriolanus.
The caterpillars of the commonwealth,
Madam, farewell.
Second Murderer:
She is the fairies' midwife, and she comes
I cannot speak
When it did taste the wormwood on the nipple
Under your great command. You are to know
Let but your honour know,
There have been,
My true love's passion: therefore pardon me,
Earth-treading stars that make dark heaven light:
To make a perfect woman, she you kill'd
Let what is dear in Sicily be cheap:
appearing what we are, have some question with the
Is set afire by thine own ignorance,
Seducing so my friends; and, to this end,
I should knock you here, sir?
Well, be't so, prithee.
Whose humble means match not his haughty mind:
and lost all my money?
You that be noble; help him, young and old!
Nothing but bonfires: the oracle is fulfilled; the
Ay, what's o'clock?
The weary sun hath made a golden set,
With powerful policy strengthen themselves,
Some say the lark and loathed toad change eyes,
Good sister, wrong me not, nor wrong yourself,
Opposing laws with strokes and here defying
QUEEN MARGARET:
Were thinly scatter'd, to make up a show.
To this submission. Yet I well remember
here, sir; a man of four-score pound a year; whose
Have you importuned him by any means?
Nourish the cause of his awaking: I
Then learn to know him now; this is the duke.
And many a man there is, even at this present,
Vincetino come of Bentivolii.
What colour are your eyebrows?
Each word thou hast spoke hath weeded from my heart
GLOUCESTER:
Abate the edge of traitors, gracious Lord,
God save your good worships! Marcius is coming
Fair sir, and you my merry mistress,
More free than he is jealous.
I sin in envying his nobility,
Had been more merciful. Come on, poor babe:
DUKE OF AUMERLE:
To send for Titus Lartius, it remains,
How! caught of me!
And all the unlook'd for issue of their bodies,
You have put me now to such a part which never
To three thousand dolours a year.
the weather or our office.
Fie, fie, fie!
She prizes not such trifles as these are:
Thus both are gone with conscience and remorse;
He could not stay to pick them in a pile
O comfortable friar! where is my lord?
Do you intend to stay with me tonight?
And so he walks, insulting o'er his prey,
With nothing shall be pleased, till he be eased
And there the little souls of Edward's children
Nay, rather, every tedious stride I make
PETRUCHIO:
KING HENRY VI:
And, sowing the kernels of it in the sea, bring
Methinks a father
Anon, good nurse! Sweet Montague, be true.
To fright the souls of fearful adversaries,
Wilt thou be made a man out of my vice?
Even pushes 'gainst our heart: the party tried
To make confession and to be absolved.
DUKE VINCENTIO:
country, Sicilia, prithee speak no more; whose very
Which once,' quoth Forrest, 'almost changed my mind;
Given Hydra here to choose an officer,
take it in what sense thou wilt.
Which to deny concerns more than avails; for as
Some harlot's spirit! my throat of war be turn'd,
KING RICHARD III:
Now, knock when I bid you, sirrah villain!
I pray you, let it stand.
Good Captain Blunt, bear my good night to him
KING LEWIS XI:
What Eve, what serpent, hath suggested thee
That ne'er did service for't: being press'd to the war,
A fortnight and odd days.
shift a trencher? he scrape a trencher!
By heaven, I'll hate him everlastingly
Third Servingman:
Post thou to Salisbury
That outward courtesies would fain proclaim
Be patient; to-morrow 't shall be mended,
How now! who calls?
Among a sisterhood of holy nuns:
LADY CAPULET:
My brother and thy uncle, call'd Antonio--
'Tis burnt; and so is all the meat.
Then in plain terms tell her my loving tale.
With maids to seem the lapwing and to jest,
if he could burn us all into one coal,
And they to him are angels.
Ay; 'tis an honester service than to meddle with thy
To every eyeball else. Go take this shape
Here in this city visiting the sick,
But Kate, the prettiest Kate in Christendom
O blessed, blessed night! I am afeard.
Have thrice disturb'd the quiet of our streets,
O, 'tis the cunning livery of hell,
Ay, and have been so any time these four hours.
He cannot choose. I am most fortunate, thus
I' faith, I am sorry that thou art not well.
hope to come upon them in the heat of their division.
and as mine honesty puts it to utterance.
HENRY BOLINGBROKE:
these boiled brains of nineteen and two-and-twenty
Nor never look upon each other's face;
As thick as honeycomb, each pinch more stinging
From this world's thraldom to the joys of heaven.
To reap the harvest of perpetual peace
Whom you have banish'd, does exceed you all.
Will't please your mightiness to wash your hands?
Worse and worse; she will not come! O vile,
What was he that did make it? See, my lord,
Faith, none for me; except the north-east wind,
Nay, your wit will not so soon out as another man's
The first that there did greet my stranger soul,
More holy and profound, than mine own life,
To hear him named, and cannot come to him.
That beggars mounted run their horse to death.
advised him for the entertainment of death.
If thou dost love, pronounce it faithfully:
Tarry, Petruchio, I must go with thee,
Some way of common trade, where subjects' feet
KING EDWARD IV:
NORTHUMBERLAND:
KING RICHARD II:
It is an honour that I dream not of.
He was drunk then, my lord: it can be no better.
Lose those he hath won.
To make him an example. All hope is gone,
What time the shepherd, blowing of his nails,
Which she hath praised him with above compare
To you a charge and trouble: to save both,
button, a duellist, a duellist; a gentleman of the
Or Ethiopian's tooth, or the fann'd
How, my lord!
Live, and be prosperous: and farewell, good fellow.
Your love says, like an honest gentleman, and a
Why, Petruchio is coming in a new hat and an old
O, that she knew she were!
To put you to't. But come; our dance, I pray:
The gaoler to his pity. I kneel'd before him;
I am known to be a humorous patrician, and one that
CORIOLANUS:
BUCKINGHAM:
If I had thought the sight of my poor image
This reprobate till he were well inclined;
For every cloud engenders not a storm.
Away, I say; I charge ye, bear her hence.
Give me thy hand: I will swear to the prince thou
Pardon me, Edward, I will make amends:
Beshrew your heart for sending me about,
What, drawn, and talk of peace! I hate the word,
distraction that they were to be known by garment,
My land amounts not to so much in all:
Her portion equal his.
Privy to none of this. How will this grieve you,
That they do hold their course toward Tewksbury:
To Oxford, or where'er these traitors are:
And, after many lengthen'd hours of grief,
Till you have done your business in the city:
First Soldier:
Mowbray, impartial are our eyes and ears:
I care not:
Son of Polixenes, with his princess, she
GLOUCESTER:
Sir, if you'ld save your life, fly to your house:
Dry sorrow drinks our blood. Adieu, adieu!
Will scare the herd, and so my shoot is lost.
you must go visit the good lady that lies in.
The bitter sentence of poor Clarence' death?
Should well agree with our external parts?
KING EDWARD IV:
HORTENSIO:
shall know within this hour, if I may come to the
Would they make peace? terrible hell make war
Digest it with a custom, I should blush
I know not where to turn: O, welcome home:
But by fair sequence and succession?
'Twere good, methinks, to steal our marriage;
First Senator:
Pray God we may make haste, and come too late!
O me, the gods!
GLOUCESTER:
They do disdain us much beyond our thoughts,
Brother of Gloucester, at Saint Alban's field
Tell him his fears are shallow, wanting instance:
That 'once' I see by your good father's speed
To dwell in solemn shades of endless night.
Either thou, or I, or both, must go with him.
To base declension and loathed bigamy
GLOUCESTER:
And general honour.
The slavish motive of recanting fear,
To Brecknock, while my fearful head is on!
Beating your officers, cursing yourselves,
Let's fight it out and not stand cavilling thus.
So may you by my dull and heavy eye,
Which done, God take King Edward to his mercy,
She'll take the enterprise upon her, father,
Of the wars' surfeits, to go rove with one
On equal terms to give him chastisement?
Inquire at London, 'mongst the taverns there,
That down fell priest and book and book and priest:
Go; I'll to dinner: hie you to the cell.
DUCHESS OF YORK:
GLOUCESTER:
Intended 'gainst Lord Angelo, came I hither,
That we are those which chased you from the field
JOHN OF GAUNT:
And make us lose the good we oft might win
Yes, by Saint Anne, do I. A good matter, surely:
Yonder's the head of that arch-enemy
No occupation; all men idle, all;
And that is, to enjoy thee for my love.
Which then our leisure would not let us hear,
A better guiding spirit! What needs these hands?
Ay, the most peerless piece of earth, I think,
DUKE VINCENTIO:
And yet 'not proud,' mistress minion, you,
Which thou heard'st cry, which thou saw'st sink. Sit down;
That if our queen and this young prince agree,
Twenty-three days
Dear gentlewoman,
Against this cruelty fight on thy side,
But what said Lady Bona to my marriage?
QUEEN ELIZABETH:
All these the enemies to our poor bark.
DUKE OF AUMERLE:
Third Gentleman:
What wouldst thou have with me?
Marry, that 'marry' is the very theme
Nay, I'll conjure too.
which time of the contract and limit of the
KATHARINA:
Blush that the world goes well, who rather had,
Yes, my good lord,
Got my lord chamberlain his liberty.
If you accept them, then their worth is great.
And long hereafter say unto his child,
Which in a napkin being close convey'd
Perhaps, him and her, sir: what have you to do?
Awaked an evil nature; and my trust,
I' the way of flattery further.
And every day I cannot come to woo.
Before King Richard in his royal lists?
The more fool you, for laying on my duty.
And thou the velvet: thou art good velvet; thou'rt
To the under generation, you shall find
Fifth Citizen:
some stair-work, some trunk-work, some
Talk not of France, sith thou hast lost it all.
Three glorious suns, each one a perfect sun;
LADY CAPULET:
What think you, if he were convey'd to bed,
The crown and comfort of my life, your favour,
Well, my lord.
a good turn.
Of the Lord Bonville on your new wife's son,
It were dishonour to deny it her.
Sir, it is a mystery.
His hopeful son's, his babe's, betrays to slander,
GLOUCESTER:
like the horse; with a linen stock on one leg and a
You have been factious one against the other,
Had he done so to great and growing men,
The ape is dead, and I must conjure him.
I'll bear thee hence; and let them fight that will,
His wit set down to make his valour live
As any ear can hear. Come, let's not weep.
The best, with whom we may articulate,
With what a sharp-provided wit he reasons!
Are mighty gossips in this monarchy.
And with the clamour keep her still awake.
Never crave him; we are definitive.
You worthy tribunes,--
Then music with her silver sound'--
I saw no man use you a pleasure; if I had, my weapon
If any such be here--as God forbid!--
Princes have but their tides for their glories,
with an unpitied whipping, for you have been a
PRINCE EDWARD:
I'll mend it with a largess. Take your paper too,
To prattle for himself.
'Madam,' and nothing else: so lords
The wreck of all my friends, nor this man's threats,
The tediousness and process of my travel:
Pray you, my lord, give me leave to question; you
Who is so far from Italy removed
Not Gloucester's death, nor Hereford's banishment
He shortens four years of my son's exile:
Hath slain ten thousand Tybalts. Tybalt's death
For by that loss I will not purchase them.
Break ope the locks o' the senate and bring in
And be true king indeed, thou but the shadow.
Will the king come, that I may breathe my last
Which otherwise would grow into extremes.
On the sudden,
My lord, I am more amazed at his dishonour
Where are thy children? wherein dost thou, joy?
We three are married, but you two are sped.
Even by your own.
sounder all the next day.
BUCKINGHAM:
Your knee, sirrah.
Whereof the root was fix'd in virtue's ground,
Ah, Richard, with the eyes of heavy mind
Change the complexion of her maid-pale peace
From my succession wipe me, father; I
No, misery makes sport to mock itself:
I'll geld 'em all; fourteen they shall not see,
Call Peter, he will show thee where they are.
Wretches so quake: they kneel, they kiss the earth;
Until a time may serve: for present vengeance,
for him. Cotus!
O Clifford, but bethink thee once again,
The creatures that were mine, I say, or changed 'em,
If she did know me one. Away with her!
Thou troublest me; am not in the vein.
To lingering sufferance. Answer me to-morrow,
DUKE VINCENTIO:
CORIOLANUS:
I mean, thy general.
BUCKINGHAM:
You pity not the state, nor the remembrance
I know not, mighty sovereign, but by guess.
To hear themselves remember'd.
speak to him, I will open my lips in vain, or
How now! what news?
Infuse his breast with magnanimity
A dream of what thou wert, a breath, a bubble,
Joint by joint, but we will know his purpose.
Is't possible that so short a time can alter the
Yet, as they are, here are they come to meet you.
I go, my lord.
To wash this blood off from my guilty hand:
Your dangerous lenity. If you are learn'd,
Golden quoifs and stomachers,
Rather than Paris. These are news indeed!
And speaking it, he wistly look'd on me,
PETRUCHIO:
I have a motion much imports your good;
When I said, banish him, I said 'twas pity.
And in the towns, as they do march along,
O, teach me how I should forget to think.
The mighty Warwick, and did fight for me?
To help thee curse that poisonous bunchback'd toad.
As one dead in the bottom of a tomb:
Your gracious self to take on you the charge
KING HENRY VI:
And you shall understand from me her mind.
Added to their familiarity,
If she deny, Lord Hastings, go with him,
GLOUCESTER:
KING RICHARD II:
labour and effect one thing specially.
First Citizen:
Ever to conquer, and to have his worth
I thought thou hadst been resolute.
You have no children, butchers! if you had,
Who is lost too: take your patience to you,
yet would have dark deeds darkly answered; he would
Between their births.
I'll see thee hang'd on Sunday first.
Did not deserve corn gratis. Being i' the war
We must proceed as we do find the people.
KING RICHARD II:
No, no: this shall forbid it: lie thou there.
As is the other for beauteous modesty.
Lord Mayor:
By her fine foot, straight leg and quivering thigh
Methought that Gloucester stumbled; and, in falling,
To use it like a giant.
Ay, that's the first thing that we have to do;
Things known betwixt us three, I'll write you down:
DUCHESS OF YORK:
JOHN OF GAUNT:
Welcome, gentlemen! I have seen the day
That vow a long and weary pilgrimage;
I'll tell you news indifferent good for either.
No, Exeter, these graces challenge grace:
Till he be dieted to my request,
Hath blister'd her report: she is with child;
CLEOMENES:
Are all things fitting for that royal time?
When presently through all thy veins shall run
Did murder her; as that name's cursed hand
Which any print of goodness wilt not take,
Patience, good Katharina, and Baptista too.
The lining of his coffers shall make coats
O deadly sin! O rude unthankfulness!
Mercutio, thou consort'st with Romeo,--
I charged thee that she should not come about me:
Such comfort as do lusty young men feel
Thou darest not, coward, live to see that day.
Adieu, good neighbour.
Nor bite the lip, as angry wenches will,
This is most likely!
DUKE VINCENTIO:
And he may fetch him.
Wine, wine, wine! What service
I do beseech you, sir, have patience:
Thou hast done a deed whereat valour will weep.
Heaven keep your honour safe!
A good construction. I raised him, and I pawn'd
I can hardly believe that, since you know not what
Groping for trouts in a peculiar river.
If any plague hang over us, 'tis he.
Then hie you hence to Friar Laurence' cell;
change this purpose,
sharp sauce.
He shall not pass you. Twice have the trumpets sounded;
On some apparent danger seen in him
The day is broke; be wary, look about.
A sail, a sail!
Compact with her that's gone, think'st thou thy oaths,
And the most noble mother of the world
Keep me in patience, and with ripen'd time
Is all unknown to me, my gracious lady.
Alas! good Kate, I will not burden thee;
sweet sorrow,
I never saw a better-fashion'd gown,
ARCHBISHOP OF YORK:
With such austerity as 'longeth to a father.
Uncomfortable time, why camest thou now
Love is a smoke raised with the fume of sighs;
thoroughly woo her, wed her and bed her and rid the
Ay, a thousand times.
That heaven finds means to kill your joys with love.
This land of such dear souls, this dear dear land,
DUKE OF YORK:
Menenius, you are known well enough too.
The spacious world cannot again afford
Misconstrue us in him and wail his death.
Take it on her. Camillo and Polixenes
kitchen-wench; marry, she had a better love to
Do wound the bark, the skin of our fruit-trees,
Owe and succeed thy weakness.
Face not me: thou hast braved many men; brave not
That heirless it hath made my kingdom and
Arms, take your last embrace! and, lips, O you
An o'er-press'd Roman and i' the consul's view
It must needs be of subtle, tender and delicate
BIONDELLO:
Cannot choose but ever weep the friend.
Where, for these many hundred years, the bones
It is my soul that calls upon my name:
By this we gather
Look on me with your welkin eye: sweet villain!
The present benefit which I possess;
To choke it in the utterance. So our virtues
brisk awhile, and the longer liver take all.
KING HENRY VI:
the pantry, and every thing in extremity. I must
For in Baptista's keep my treasure is:
And thou, Lord Bourbon, our high admiral,
to dinner, thither.
Why come you not? what! multitudes, and fear?
A most auspicious star, whose influence
Farewell; commend me to thy mistress.
Thy noble shape is but a form of wax,
Yet one word more: grief boundeth where it falls,
Fly, father, fly! for all your friends are fled,
Let's be calm.
very first house, of the first and second cause:
Nay, then you lie: it is the blessed sun.
Were in wild hurry. Here do we make his friends
DUCHESS OF YORK:
DUKE VINCENTIO:
If he did not care whether he had their love or no,
ANTIGONUS:
And hangs on Dian's temple: dear Valeria!
First Lord:
CORIOLANUS:
What comfort is for Claudio?
Your horse stands ready at the park-corner.
And what you do, do it unfeignedly.
And then, as we have ta'en the sacrament,
I can, Petruchio, help thee to a wife
Till thou shalt know the reason of my love:
if thou beest capable of things serious, thou must
Darest thou resolve to kill a friend of mine?
For, like an ass whose back with ingots bows,
The very time Aumerle and you did talk.
Red as 'twould burn Rome; and his injury
Believe me, sir, they butt together well.
Nor shall not be the last; like silly beggars
The world affords no law to make thee rich;
with the buttock of the night than with the forehead
And spies a far-off shore where he would tread,
Was stabb'd with bloody daggers: God, I pray him,
Good night.
So to enforce or qualify the laws
sir, we had but two in the house, which at that very
My lord, your sorrow was too sore laid on,
The sternness of his presence?
Be patient, they are friends, Ratcliff and Lovel.
DUKE VINCENTIO:
But when the duke is slain, they'll quickly fly.
Good, speak to the mariners: fall to't, yarely,
PETRUCHIO:
Such a fellow is not to be talked withal. Away with
'Tis but his policy to counterfeit,
First Officer:
Twenty-three years, and saw myself unbreech'd,
Have by my hands of life bereaved him.
Make rash remonstrance of my hidden power
Courage, man; the hurt cannot be much.
Second Citizen:
We have compounded on.
That had not God, for some strong purpose, steel'd
To her, widow!
Therefore, no more but this: Henry, your sovereign,
Stifle the villain whose unstanched thirst
Be you then as the people's officer.
For this design. What course I mean to hold
Conformable as other household Kates.
And quietness of the people, which before
GLOUCESTER:
Ay, marry, sir, now looks he like a king!
Death, lie thou there, by a dead man interr'd.
Unless thou couldst put on some other shape,
While we pursued the horsemen of the north,
But a hare that is hoar
Thy burning car never had scorch'd the earth!
To have them recompensed as thought on.
To come to me forthwith.
You may go to the devil's dam: your gifts are so
Cousin, farewell: what presence must not know,
AUTOLYCUS:
I wish't might fall on me, when I was found
Ay, every dram of woman's flesh is false, If she be.
Mopsa must be your mistress: marry, garlic,
The blood upon your visage dries; 'tis time
Is gone to meet the king, who lately landed
And when they bear me say 'It shall be so
I saw the wound, I saw it with mine eyes,--
Whose manners still our tardy apish nation
Which we more hunt for than the grace of God!
Whose rocky shore beats back the envious siege
The tongues o' the common mouth: I do despise them;
She that accuses him of fornication,
But I have cause to pry into this pedant:
GLOUCESTER:
We cannot miss him: he does make our fire,
To some more fitter place, and that with speed.
ARCHBISHOP OF YORK:
A fault on us, your tribunes; that we laboured,
Vices, I would say, sir. I know this man well: he
Better do so than tarry and be hang'd.
Made him a man; and though thou livest and breathest,
it was against our will.
Yet looks he like a king: behold, his eye,
If not to answer, you might haply think
By whom, Camillo?
O that he were alive, and here beholding
Your suffering in this dearth, you may as well
You are looked for and called for, asked for and
Shall be the general's fault, though he perform
To pardon me yet for a night or two,
I drink, I eat, array myself, and live.
And how she was beguiled and surprised,
therein the heaping friendships. Of that fatal
Did make wolves howl and penetrate the breasts
And little mouse, every unworthy thing,
BUCKINGHAM:
I do remain as neuter. So, fare you well;
Peruse this writing here, and thou shalt know
But none returns. For us to levy power
beyond credit,--
While we lie tumbling in the hay.
Not to relent is beastly, savage, devilish.
Till we meet Warwick with his foreign power.
KING RICHARD III:
BRAKENBURY:
As I remember, this should be the house.
Where art thou, keeper? give me a cup of wine.
must have that thanks from Rome, after the measure
If not, why cease you till you are so?
Unplagued with corns will have a bout with you.
There stands the castle, by yon tuft of trees,
Hadst thou been kill'd when first thou didst presume,
With a foul traitor's name stuff I thy throat;
Well, let them rest. Come hither, Catesby.
I needs must think it honesty. Camillo,
Most piteous to be wild, I have dispatch'd in post
Believe me, thou talkest of an admirable conceited
KING EDWARD IV:
That he's your fixed enemy, and revoke
Under whose heavy sense your brother's life
After the inveterate hate he bears you.
That she was coming with a full intent
I heard thee say, and vauntingly thou spakest it
PETRUCHIO:
Huntsman, what say'st thou? wilt thou go along?
intended fire your city is ready to flame in, with
As I come out: this action I now go on
beshrew them!
My Lord of Warwick, hear me but one word:
The name of king? o' God's name, let it go:
O, who hath any cause to mourn but I?
I doubt not but his friends will fly to us.
Will undertake to woo curst Katharina,
You kiss by the book.
Mine honour lives when his dishonour dies,
I shall, my lord.
LADY ANNE:
The love I bore your queen--lo, fool again!--
The corn o' the storehouse gratis, as 'twas used
First Gentleman:
I do lament the sickness of the king.
Or my shamed life in his dishonour lies:
If thou deny'st it twenty times, thou liest;
So leaves me to consider what is breeding
Play too, but so disgraced a part, whose issue
Upon my life, I am a lord indeed
By calmness or by absence: all's in anger.
Was it not she and that good man of worship,
grange, resides this dejected Mariana. At that
Faster than thought or time.
If not already.
The honour of my child.
And so I am: then crushing penury
I do demand,
As shall be proved upon you?
O my lord!
Third Servingman:
Were slily crept into his human powers
Edward for Edward pays a dying debt.
As well as one so great and so forlorn
That no man shall have private conference,
I' the virtue of your daughter: one being dead,
Nay, hear me, Isabel.
'Have I no friend?' quoth he: he spake it twice,
Unto the appetite and affection common
Should show so heinous, black, obscene a deed!
And bring our horses unto Long-lane end;
The wrinkles in my brows, now filled with blood,
Who hath committed them?
What! can so young a thorn begin to prick?
DUKE VINCENTIO:
There's nothing ill can dwell in such a temple:
Is the day so young?
Being moved, he will not spare to gird the gods.
Gave hope thou wast in being, have preserved
Her father is Baptista Minola,
Thus have I politicly begun my reign,
LADY CAPULET:
To go with us unto the officers.
Shall come again, transform'd to orient pearl,
They quite forget their loss of liberty.
Thou hast years upon thee; and thou art too full
JOHN OF GAUNT:
And have no vigour in them.
I beseech you, peace:
Second Citizen:
That we have had no time to move our daughter:
What heir of York is there alive but we?
Ghost of LADY ANNE:
Sir, I think
Splitting the air with noise.
Awake, dear heart, awake! thou hast slept well; Awake!
GLOUCESTER:
sure of it. To express the like kindness, myself,
With unrestrained loose companions,
I'll gladly learn.
FRIAR JOHN:
My guilt be on my head, and there an end.
And suffer'd me by the voice of slaves to be
KING EDWARD IV:
The revenue whereof shall furnish us
This gentleman told somewhat of my tale,--
KING RICHARD II:
With flight and agued fear! Mend and charge home,
And I, the hapless male to one sweet bird,
How now there!
Enforced thee! art thou king, and wilt be forced?
As much unto my good lord chamberlain!
I thank his grace, I know he loves me well;
Howlings attend it: how hast thou the heart,
Didst thou not say he comes?
To say this boy were like me. Come, sir page,
That we shall hardly in our ages see
Out of her favour, where I am in love.
And send them after to supply our wants;
Which since have steaded much; so, of his gentleness,
My absence doth neglect no great designs,
Yet, since it is but green, it should be put
But in the less foul profanation.
I prophesy the fearful'st time to thee
Yet I have faced it with a card of ten.
And kiss'd her lips with such a clamorous smack
Which once perform'd, let all the world say no,
For whose dear sake thou wast but lately dead;
To stop devoted charitable deeds?
With modest warrant.
Can speak like us: then wisely, good sir, weigh
All circumstances well considered.
Say 'pardon,' king; let pity teach thee how:
Open the tomb, lay me with Juliet.
Thoughts high for one so tender, cleft the heart
Whose top-branch overpeer'd Jove's spreading tree
NORTHUMBERLAND:
And therefore thou mayst think my 'havior light:
Strike at the heaven with your staves as lift them
Did not offend, nor were not worthy blame,
I have seen two such sights, by sea and by land!
County Anselme and his beauteous sisters; the lady
AUTOLYCUS:
BRAKENBURY:
Never did captive with a freer heart
Nay,'tis true.
FERDINAND:
When he bestrides the lazy-pacing clouds
KING RICHARD III:
Two props of virtue for a Christian prince,
And, see, a book of prayer in his hand,
yesterday; for the other has half, by the entreaty
And five years since there was some speech of marriage
To the dead bodies of my queen and son:
death, with the manner how she came to't bravely
And with his hat, thus waving it in scorn,
Your highness aims at, if I aim aright.
And never from this palace of dim night
She, Claudio, that you wrong'd, look you restore.
the state, and usurp the beggary he was never born
the physician: the most sovereign prescription in
DUKE OF YORK:
Ay, here's a deer whose skin's a keeper's fee:
HORTENSIO:
that are fallible: tomorrow you must die; go to
By all my hopes, most falsely doth he lie.
And for that offence
'Twas a sweet marriage, and we prosper well in our return.
That presses him from sleep.
And then be gone and trouble you no more.
Grumio, mum! God save you, Signior Gremio.
QUEEN MARGARET:
QUEEN MARGARET:
That thou her maid art far more fair than she:
CORIOLANUS:
GLOUCESTER:
That triumph thus upon my misery!
Taken from Paul's to be interred there;
Which, mellow'd by the stealing hours of time,
And, to be noted for a merry man,
Fetch us in fuel; and be quick, thou'rt best,
To a dear friend of the good Duke of York's,
To suck the sweets of sweet philosophy.
POLIXENES:
Brief abstract and record of tedious days,
on when thou art dead and rotten, come hither. What
Reward to him that brings the traitor in?
And will maintain what thou hast said is false
The shepherd's note since we have left our throne
Why either were you ignorant to see't,
To one that would do thus. I am half through;
Our aediles smote? ourselves resisted? Come.
Second Keeper:
Is not the causer of the timeless deaths
Arise; one knocks; good Romeo, hide thyself.
God save your honour!
Do bid it welcome.
Brother Petruchio, sister Katharina,
Feather of lead, bright smoke, cold fire,
For you, the city, thus I turn my back:
That I have been disloyal to thy bed,
Alexander. What he bids be done is finished with
But it confounds the breather. He should have lived,
Repent you, fair one, of the sin you carry?
KATHARINA:
CORIOLANUS:
Good morrow, Kate; for that's your name, I hear.
to do the prince my master good; which who knows how
AUTOLYCUS:
Whose honour and whose honesty till now
Had graced the tender temples of my child,
May prove a beauteous flower when next we meet.
What traitor hears me, and says not amen?
Turn to another, this shall slay them both:
And replant Henry in his former state.
As fast lock'd up in sleep as guiltless labour
O, I have bought the mansion of a love,
This bird you aim'd at, though you hit her not;
What's done i' the Capitol; who's like to rise,
O'er the vast world to seek a single man,
DUKE OF YORK:
mistress and be happy rivals in Bianco's love, to
Can set the duke up in despite of me.
'Tis pity she's not honest, honourable:'
The value of her own: 'twere a concealment
To deck our soldiers for these Irish wars.
Tranio, I saw her coral lips to move
We still have known thee for a holy man.
An open et caetera, thou a poperin pear!
Your love deserves my thanks; but my desert
With those that I saw suffer: a brave vessel,
Then we are rid of Licio.
thy old father Menenius does! O my son, my son!
I to buy for our sheep-shearing feast? Three pound
when they are known. Call your executioner, and off
Much is your sorrow; mine ten times so much.
way home again.
Master, master, look about you: who goes there, ha?
Shame on himself! for my desert is honour:
Of Bolingbroke: their fortunes both are weigh'd:
But come, young waverer, come, go with me,
And therein negligent; or else a fool
First Musician:
Who shall begin?
As if he were his officer: desperation
DUKE OF AUMERLE:
his events, with a prayer they may prove prosperous;
Unfurnish me of reason. They are come.
Than Jephthah's, when he sacrificed his daughter.
His nature is too noble for the world:
Thou art up-roused by some distemperature;
GLOUCESTER:
He sent in writing after me; what he would not,
What is thy sentence then but speechless death,
That thou art malcontent? I will provide thee.
Well-minded Clarence, be thou fortunate!
I will resolve your grace immediately.
After your way his tale pronounced shall bury
Should lose his birthright by his father's fault,
Whose father bears the title of a king,--
And sight-outrunning were not; the fire and cracks
So like you, 'tis the worse. Behold, my lords,
And give us notice of his inclination:
First Citizen:
There is a devilish mercy in the judge,
The trumpet any more. Pray you, Emilia,
Thou wouldst else have made thy tale large.
sings 'em over as they were gods or goddesses; you
His name and credit shall you undertake,
The lord protector lost it, and not I:
I like you, lads; about your business straight;
I will attend her here,
If you do, sir, I am for you: I serve as good a man as you.
Or not remember what I must be now!
That Margaret your queen and my son Edward
An 'twere to give again,--but 'tis no matter.
O' the dreadful thunder-claps, more momentary
You'll mar all:
'Tis now dead midnight, and by eight to-morrow
Nor yoke with him for tribune.
To take our brother Clarence to your grace.
To have him match'd; and if you please to like
they say one would speak to her and stand in hope of
which we being members, should bring ourselves to be
Should not be utter'd feebly. It is held
And could not get him for my heart to do it.
DUKE VINCENTIO:
My general cares not for you. Back, I say, go; lest
I am not in the giving vein to-day.
The moon! the sun: it is not moonlight now.
'Tis he that sent us hither now to slaughter thee.
Release my brother; and, after much debatement,
For 'tis a throne where honour may be crown'd
To cut off those that have offended him.
I will not fail: 'tis twenty years till then.
And furbish new the name of John a Gaunt,
By Jove, 'twould be my mind!
So flies the reckless shepherd from the wolf;
moves like an engine, and the ground shrinks before
And in that quarrel use it to the death.
I do; and surely
Now I arise:
Your friends are up, and buckle on their armour.
How now! what's the news with you?
But dust was thrown upon his sacred head:
My revenge properly, my remission lies
KING EDWARD IV:
But cheerly seek how to redress their harms.
To save this bastard's life,--for 'tis a bastard,
PETRUCHIO:
the prince thou art a tall fellow of thy hands and
Lucentio, you shall supply the bridegroom's place:
To doom the offenders, whatsoever they be
POLIXENES:
Justice design the victor's chivalry.
To hear true shrift. Come, madam, let's away.
And twenty times made pause to sob and weep,
And you shall pay well for 'em.
I'll tell thee what befell me on a day
In our first way.
Could he say less?
FRIAR LAURENCE:
If I revolt, off goes young George's head;
Of your entire affection to Bianca;
Divide in all with us.
All several sins, all used in each degree,
O, pardon me, my lord; it oft falls out,
What's the news?
Marry, would the word 'farewell' have lengthen'd hours
And if I be, sir, is it any offence?
Fall deep in love with thee; and her great charms
Deformed, unfinish'd, sent before my time
My father's of a better nature, sir,
You speak too bitterly.
But think you, lords, that Clifford fled with them?
Romeo is coming.
Is dangerous treason: he is come to open
I swear I'll cuff you, if you strike again.
Ay, sir, in Pisa have I often been,
Hath power enough to serve our turn. But who comes here?
Peace, children, peace! the king doth love you well:
Thou know'st my lodging: get me ink and paper,
the spirits o' the dead
Tapster; a poor widow's tapster.
Now sir, the sound that tells what hour it is
stark spoiled with the staggers, begnawn with the
I'll give thee armour to keep off that word:
And they indeed had no cause to mistrust;
The heavens have bless'd you with a goodly son,
The deep-revolving witty Buckingham
Rideth a puissant navy; to the shore
CORIOLANUS:
As victors wear at the Olympian games:
And with satiety seeks to quench his thirst.
Sir, how comes't that you
the fish, was when, at the relation of the queen's
Tell me, moreover, hast thou sounded him,
Thus plated in habiliments of war,
KING EDWARD IV:
Pray you, go fit you to the custom and
NORTHUMBERLAND:
perchance of the duke's death; perchance entering
O Margaret, thus 'twill be; and thou, poor soul,
An you re us and fa us, you note us.
would preferment drop on my head. I brought the old
This but done,
Ay, sir, it is too true; God help the while!
that never prayed before, how I cried, how the
the tune of 'Two maids wooing a man:' there's
Which told me they had beat you to your trenches?
What shall I say? to safeguard thine own life,
In dreadful war mayst thou be overcome,
KING RICHARD III:
Go to, sir; you weigh equally; a feather will turn
I'll tell you, Sir Lucentio: when the priest
Come on, Lord Hastings, will you go with me?
Into destruction cast him.
Whom in this conflict I unwares have kill'd.
Of the king's ship
Drawn with a team of little atomies
His going I could frame to serve my turn,
Your father's head, which Clifford placed there;
With six Aufidiuses, or more, his tribe,
stuck in ears: you might have pinched a placket, it
I'll tell him yet of Angelo's request,
Here, sir; as foolish as I was before.
As well assured Richard their king is dead.
His very air, that I should call you brother,
Well; come to me to-morrow.
You are to blame, my lord, to rate her so.
Who? Camillo?
Or wallow naked in December snow
Shall be my recreation: so long as nature
Might I but through my prison once a day
It needs not, nor it boots thee not, proud queen,
Nor read the secrets in't.
And so shall starve with feeding. Come, let's go:
And brief, good mother; for I am in haste.
What says his majesty?
I know you can do very little alone; for your helps
PETRUCHIO:
I mean, his conversation with Shore's wife,
And proved the subject of my own soul's curse,
Usurps the regal title and the seat
Yes, brother, you may live:
He professes to have received no sinister measure
Do smilingly revolt; and who resist
What, was I born to this, that my sad look
That he should hither come as this dire night,
More penitence than done trespass: at the last,
The forfeit, sovereign, of my servant's life;
own fingers: therefore he that cannot lick his
Familiarly shall call thy Dorset brother;
'Twixt you and your poor brother.
The senators of Rome are this good belly,
Ere three days pass, which hath as long loved me
Second Servingman:
HORTENSIO:
Which now bear evidence against my soul,
3 KING HENRY VI
Although apparent guilt be seen in them;
Untainted, unexamined, free, at liberty
Now shall my friend Petruchio do me grace,
I think, Camillo?
Jove send her
QUEEN ELIZABETH:
Why, what, i' devil's name, tailor, call'st thou this?
Which, look'd on as it is, is nought but shadows
Here's goodly gear!
Good time of day unto my gracious lord!
GLOUCESTER:
'Twere childish weakness to lament or fear.
For God's sake, let not us two be behind;
Than when he bites, but lanceth not the sore.
With Romeo, till I behold him--dead--
His tears proclaim'd his, parting with her: thence,
In wholesome manner.
HORTENSIO:
not on thy baseness court-contempt? Thinkest thou,
Of all professors else, make proselytes
Till thou give joy; until thou bid me joy,
For well I wot that Henry is no soldier.
His friends still wrought reprieves for him: and,
Am I your bird? I mean to shift my bush;
There is no cause: when you shall know your mistress
But mine shall be a comfort to your age.
Do you call, sir?
BIONDELLO:
LORD WILLOUGHBY:
within me.
KING LEWIS XI:
O, sir, you are deceived.
A dog of the house of Montague moves me.
So can I name his faults,--
good dishes,--
feelingly now?
That, in the official marks invested, you
Herself poised with herself in either eye:
As boldness from my bosom, let 't not be doubted
Or that I could forget what I have been,
FRIAR PETER:
That would unseen be wicked? is this nothing?
And I'll still stay, to have thee still forget,
BIONDELLO:
And so I was; which plainly signified
Tybalt, my cousin! O my brother's child!
That he consents, if Warwick yield consent;
Angelo hath seen them both, and will discover the favour.
Conditionally, that here thou take an oath
Since once he play'd a farmer's eldest son:
The casting forth to crows thy baby-daughter
What villain madam?
wakened thy dog that hath lain asleep in the sun:
And in compassion weep the fire out;
Romeo, that she were, O, that she were
Then be not poor, but break it, and take this.
Now, in good sadness, son Petruchio,
There was a yielding,--this admits no excuse.
The verier wag o' the two?
Whose bright out-shining beams thy cloudy wrath
'Tis nothing but conceit, my gracious lady.
Post you to London, and you will find it so;
Since the more fair and crystal is the sky,
flattered the people, who ne'er loved them; and there
put them on first in Afric, at the marriage of
Upon my party, I'ld revolt to make
What is her burying grave that is her womb,
The sun, for sorrow, will not show his head:
Have I not in a pitched battle heard
Who, my master?
with the fashions, full of wingdalls, sped with
My lord the king, the king!
Wilt thou provoke me? then have at thee, boy!
It is too rash, too unadvised, too sudden;
Lately attendant on the Duke of Norfolk.
The rest will comfort, for thy counsel's sound.
KING HENRY VI:
And threaten present blusters. In my conscience,
What, hath thy fiery heart so parch'd thine entrails
Or else you would not have bestow'd the heir
Your changed complexions are to me a mirror
'Whoop, do me no harm, good man.'
To shape my legs of an unequal size;
And that beyond commission, and I find it,
To-day shalt thou behold a subject die
Now, pray, sir, get you gone:
Mistress, what's your opinion of your sister?
To your worship's house, sir?
By many an ounce--he dropp'd it for his country;
justified in our loves; for indeed--
Ah, sirrah, by my fay, it waxes late:
KING HENRY VI:
Shall we hear from you, Catesby, ere we sleep?
BUCKINGHAM:
How nice the quarrel was, and urged withal
And say what thou seest yond.
Your enemies and his find something in him.
Sometimes her head on one side, some another;
But fetter you till death.
Do you quarrel, sir?
Here comes the queen, whose looks bewray her anger:
Thy mother rather feel thy pride than fear
And do my spiriting gently.
Have done with words, my lords, and hear me speak.
And therefore frolic: we will hence forthwith,
So, your opinion is, Aufidius,
To lengthen out the worst that must be spoken:
Thou dost, and think'st it much to tread the ooze
When I shall see this gentleman, thy speeches
And till she stoop she must not be full-gorged,
In your close patience.
Once more, what news?
Take thy commission.
KING HENRY VI:
Alas, alas!
With us to break his neck.
The people cry you mock'd them, and of late,
BISHOP OF ELY:
Without that title. Romeo, doff thy name,
When but love's shadows are so rich in joy!
Sweet sister, let me live:
First Watchman:
Even now the frozen bosom of the north,
Thou art not here: murder is thy alms-deed;
fob off our disgrace with a tale: but, an 't please
KING EDWARD IV:
To no sight but thine and mine, invisible
I have not sounded him, nor he deliver'd
Here's goodly work!
ballads; we'll buy the other things anon.
Are you my wife and will not call me husband?
I cannot blame her: by God's holy mother,
Change shapes with Proteus for advantages,
In hand and hope of action: but we do learn
DUKE VINCENTIO:
With purple falchion, painted to the hilt
For me to joy and weep their gain and loss:
The better for him: would I were so too!
than the poor thing is here. I'll take it up for
HORTENSIO:
PETRUCHIO:
Even in the lukewarm blood of Henry's heart.
Or if not so, then here I hit it right,
Thou strokedst me and madest much of me, wouldst give me
Adjudged an olive branch and laurel crown,
FRIAR LAURENCE:
I throw my hands, mine eyes, my heart to thee,
Her father's liking: which to bring to pass,
Well, sir, what answer made the belly?
Caesar to you; in plain dealing, Pompey, I shall
He that hath suffer'd this disorder'd spring
O, you hope the duke will return no more; or you
This day she was both pantler, butler, cook,
That young Prince Edward marries Warwick's daughter.
Noting this penury, to myself I said
To the noble heart. What's gone and what's past help
He can command, lets it straight feel the spur;
To plant and o'erwhelm custom. Let me pass
Which honour does acknowledge, whereof the least
None, sir; I have no pheasant, cock nor hen.
What one, my lord?
False to my nature? Rather say I play
To make thy riches pleasant. What's yet in this
ANTIGONUS:
That stays upon me, whose persuasion is
And so we will, provided that he win her.
And he shall pardon thee these outrages.
All's true that is mistrusted: that false villain
That noble honour'd lord, is fear'd and loved?
I would have 'voided thee, but in mere spite,
And yet the king not privy to my drift,
I have night's cloak to hide me from their sight;
DUCHESS OF YORK:
And I this.
My fan, Peter.
As well I tender you and all of yours!
are ever thrust to the wall: therefore I will push
Camillo has betray'd me;
First Murderer:
You'll mar it if you kiss it, stain your own
Than we bring men to comfort them:
For our case is as theirs.
for a day of kings' entreaties a mother should not
By accident most strange, bountiful Fortune,
A trembling upon Rome, such as was never
And pay them when you part.
Shall bitterly begin his fearful date
But woo her, gentle Paris, get her heart,
With honours like himself.
Of the whole body: but, if you do remember,
To my house. Fare you well.
My uncles both are slain in rescuing me;
Indeed, I should have ask'd you that before.
Was Duke of Milan; and thou his only heir
joy waded in tears. There was casting up of eyes,
Beloved of me; and that my deeds shall prove.
May it please your highness to resolve me now;
And there I am. Where is my Romeo?
A party in this alteration, finding
And thus far having stretch'd it--here be with them--
The queen from France hath brought a puissant power:
GLOUCESTER:
Is Romeo slaughter'd, and is Tybalt dead?
Thou wilt fall backward when thou hast more wit;
Not yet enjoy'd: so tedious is this day
Against my will to do myself this wrong.
HORTENSIO:
Only my wars with him: he is a lion
DUKE VINCENTIO:
Thou hast amazed me: by my holy order,
DUKE OF YORK:
To shepherds looking on their silly sheep,
KING RICHARD III:
DUKE VINCENTIO:
This sickly land might solace as before.
DUKE VINCENTIO:
If 'twere not she, I cannot tell who told me.
exercises than formerly he hath appeared.
Marry, I will; and this is wisely done.
Let me entreat you.
Such as move men; beside, she hath prosperous art
And with thy lips keep in my soul awhile!
Thou kill'st me in his life; giving him breath,
More than it is ere foul sin gathering head
What is the news i' the court?
The rather for I have some sport in hand
Ah, Warwick! Montague hath breathed his last;
We charge you, in God's name, and the king's,
Happy the parents of so fair a child;
Master, a mercatante, or a pedant,
I ne'er again shall see her. O thou mine heir
I say, they nourish'd disobedience, fed
First Murderer:
Or, wanting that, with tears distill'd by moans:
Of Mantua, sir? marry, God forbid!
From every meaner man.
Signior Baptista, you are happily met.
That skins the vice o' the top. Go to your bosom;
And I, who at his hands received my life, him
Be rein'd again to temperance; then he speaks
KATHARINA:
And said 'Commend me to my valiant brother.'
And to the latest gasp cried out for Warwick,
The very minute bids thee ope thine ear;
In herbs, plants, stones, and their true qualities:
How canst thou try them so?
Ay, but why?
If not, elsewhere they meet with charity:
GLOUCESTER:
We recommend to you, tribunes of the people,
Hath raised in Gallia have arrived our coast
Thou factious Duke of York, descend my throne,
your misery increase with your age! I say to you,
Whilst Dighton thus told on: 'We smothered
'Tis he, that villain Romeo.
This day's black fate on more days doth depend;
So shows a snowy dove trooping with crows,
Your most sweet voices: now you have left
HENRY BOLINGBROKE:
I prithee, give no limits to my tongue:
That late thou gavest me; for Mercutio's soul
Thou map of honour, thou King Richard's tomb,
Save that we do the denunciation lack
I took him for the plainest harmless creature
PETRUCHIO:
Cold friends to Richard: what do they in the north,
Or to dispraise my lord with that same tongue
'Tis with cares.
Wherein thou liest in reputation sick;
Or all will fall in broil.
If we and Caius Marcius chance to meet,
trencher, hence!
KING RICHARD III:
Like to a harvest-man that's task'd to mow
A plague upon you all! His royal person,--
Faith, mistress, then I have no cause to stay.
But stay thee, 'tis the fruits of love I mean.
proud, violent, testy magistrates, alias fools, as
Above the moon: we must be burnt for you.
Well, sir; what did this gentleman to her?
3 KING HENRY VI
And we his subjects sworn in all allegiance
But she, your subject, loathes such sovereignty.
This wide-chapp'd rascal--would thou mightst lie drowning
Thy husband in thy bosom there lies dead;
The glasses of my sight! a beggar's tongue
As, walk'd your first queen's ghost,
That wrings mine eyes to't.
Hath dimm'd your infant morn to aged night.
'This general applause and loving shout
I pray thee, pretty York, who told thee this?
Why, then thou shalt not have thy husband's lands.
KING EDWARD IV:
DUKE VINCENTIO:
which is in the keeping of Paulina,--a piece many
DUKE VINCENTIO:
NORTHUMBERLAND:
in the view of the shepherd: so that all the
With all prerogative: hence his ambition growing--
O, now be gone; more light and light it grows.
His charters and his customary rights;
At young Elizabeth, my brother's daughter,
I pray now, keep below.
KING RICHARD II:
I cannot make you what amends I would,
And you be not, hang, beg, starve, die in
Ha! little honour to be much believed,
Tyrrel, I mean those bastards in the Tower.
desire to live.
Is in the field, and still his power increaseth.
KING RICHARD II:
But a harsh hearing when women are froward.
Misguide thy opposers' swords! Bold gentleman,
Thou art their soldier, and being bred in broils
By interims and conveying gusts we have heard
eternity and could put breath into his work, would
The charges of our friends. Ye Roman gods!
Now, brother Richard, Lord Hastings, and the rest,
Speak, nephew, were you by when it began?
Young Romeo is it?
But the rarity of it is,--which is indeed almost
pleasure to you in being so. You blame Marcius for
Farewell, thou woful welcomer of glory!
We'll make an instrument of this, omit
Affection! thy intention stabs the centre:
For then I'll marry Warwick's youngest daughter.
Three crabbed months had sour'd themselves to death,
How now! what's the matter? My old friend Grumio!
To bend the fatal instruments of war
Among the infinite doings of the world,
Men shall deal unadvisedly sometimes,
Think'st thou it honourable for a noble man
Sluiced out his innocent soul through streams of blood:
To several subjects. Heaven hath my empty words;
With hearts more proof than shields. Advance,
Care not for issue;
Peter, stay at the gate.
past compare: he is not the flower of courtesy,
bestraught: here's--
Can I go forward when my heart is here?
Shall thy old dugs once more a traitor rear?
No sleep close up that deadly eye of thine,
Be valiant and give signal to the fight.
Thou pitied'st Rutland; I will pity thee.
KING EDWARD IV:
KING HENRY VI:
To get slips of them.
That was the whip of your bragg'd progeny,
Go, some of you, whoe'er you find attach.
The quarrel is between our masters and us their men.
What they are used to bear.
Sir, my gracious lord,
Speak like a subject, proud ambitious York!
CORIOLANUS:
As in a vault, an ancient receptacle,
will mow all down before him, and leave his passage polled.
Sent back like Hallowmas or short'st of day.
His body to that pleasant country's earth,
Basta; content thee, for I have it full.
Third Messenger:
And needly will be rank'd with other griefs,
I have heard of the lady, and good words went with her name.
The wind sits fair for news to go to Ireland,
Quick is mine ear to hear of good towards him.
Not at all, good lady:
March'd toward Saint Alban's to intercept the queen,
Hermione, my dearest, thou never spokest
Yet oftentimes he goes but mean-apparell'd.
For he was fitter for that place than earth.
That made the air unwholesome, when you cast
The which thou once didst bend against her breast,
But thou art neither like thy sire nor dam;
What mutter you, or what conspire you, lords?
Cannot be quiet scarce a breathing-while,
But doth suffer a sea-change
How might she tongue me! Yet reason dares her no;
We let the people know't.
South from the mighty power of the king.
And many an orphan's water-standing eye--
The foe is merciless, and will not pity;
I prithee now, my son,
And egally indeed to all estates,--
And Warwick shall disprove it. You forget
CORIOLANUS:
MISTRESS OVERDONE:
PETRUCHIO:
I may not answer.
So her dead likeness, I do well believe,
O, thou wilt speak again of banishment.
Hail, royal prince!
Above an hour, my lord.
May know if you remain upon this island;
What countryman, I pray?
Did to thy father, steep'd in Rutland's blood,--
But He, that hath the steerage of my course,
And our weak spirits ne'er been higher rear'd
How say you?
open. He was torn to pieces with a bear: this
If case some one of you would fly from us,
Had you a special warrant for the deed?
Were but a feigned friend to our proceedings:
KING EDWARD IV:
Such is the lightness of you common men.
The sweet which is their poison: your dishonour
The leading of thine own revenges, take
Take him and cut him out in little stars,
That's my noble master!
Lord, how my head aches! what a head have I!
But, Warwick,
DUCHESS OF YORK:
A partial slander sought I to avoid,
A woman, and thy aunt, great king; 'tis I.
Pale ashes of the house of Lancaster!
Like to a chaos, or an unlick'd bear-whelp
Lead forth and bring you back in happiness!
Ay, say you so? the gates shall then be open'd.
Unto their lords, by them accomplished:
'Bove the contentious waves he kept, and oar'd
A noble wish.
How! away!
Hath cost me an hundred crowns since supper-time.
He took good rest to-night;
Leave shall you have to court her at your pleasure.
Nay, these are almost thoroughly persuaded;
Should from yond cloud speak divine things,
First Servant:
Now it's twenty-seven: every gash was an enemy's grave.
The proudest he that holds up Lancaster,
Of a poor worm. Thy best of rest is sleep,
Lest I surcease to honour mine own truth
So many miseries have crazed my voice,
Now will I write letters to Angelo,--
stars with oaths,
The offer of an hundred thousand crowns
KING RICHARD III:
GLOUCESTER:
To entreat your majesty to visit him.
I heard him swear,
melted away with rotten dews, the fourth would return
How! I inform them!
How much she loves me: O, the kindest Kate!
Cousin of Buckingham, and you sage, grave men,
Ah, what a shame! ah, what a fault were this!
In haste whereof, most heartily I pray
Norfolk, so far as to mine enemy:--
What is it, but to make thy sepulchre
Sir, his stoutness
Well demanded, wench:
having been supple and courteous to the people,
His treasons will sit blushing in his face,
I pray thee, stay a while: I hope my holy humour
By having him, making yourself no less.
Second Senator:
We have some old crab-trees here
Is wise and virtuous, and his noble queen
With curses in her mouth, tears in her eyes,
the middle and but one half of what he was
More homely than thy state. For thee, fond boy,
Your provost knows the place where he abides
Lest I might be too rash:
More than the instant army we can make,
And since that time it is eleven years;
Yet one time he did call me by my name:
In my behalf; my reputation stain'd
Yet did repent me, after more advice;
KING EDWARD IV:
Wrong hath but wrong, and blame the due of blame.
for you. It is 'music with her silver sound,'
There is my gage, Aumerle, in gage to thine:
My conceal'd lady to our cancell'd love?
And here receive we from our father Stanley
Prithee, Kate, let's stand aside and see the end of
The youngest daughter whom you hearken for
And look upon, as if the tragedy
Deserved this so dishonour'd rub, laid falsely
This speak I, lords, to let you understand,
Whipp'd and tormented and--God-den, good fellow.
They are as children but one step below,
Doth he so seek his life?
GLOUCESTER:
Bianca, stand aside. Poor girl! she weeps.
Well, call them again. I am not made of stone,
BUCKINGHAM:
I will continue that I broach'd in jest.
KING RICHARD III:
GLOUCESTER:
Should in the furthest east begin to draw
May they perceive's intent! He will require them,
Their liberties; make them of no more voice
That age, ache, penury and imprisonment
Having my country's peace and brothers' loves.
To flatter Henry and forsake thy brother!
What you will have, I'll give, and willing too;
FRIAR LAURENCE:
Of contradiction: being once chafed, he cannot
Yet heavens are just, and time suppresseth wrongs.
KING EDWARD IV:
Ay, just; perpetual durance, a restraint,
Your wonder: but yet speak; first, you, my liege,
Sir, she came in great with child; and longing,
come something nearer.
I'll bring him to you.
So long could I
Have taken sanctuary: the tender prince
But dead, thy kingdom cannot buy my breath.
Shall be accomplish'd without contradiction:
Well, go, prepare yourself.
Who will of thy arrival be full joyous.
Is not, sir, my doublet as fresh as the first day I
3 KING HENRY VI
Than any woman in this waning age.
Or I will fill the house with armed men,
And now my tongue's use is to me no more
I know him not, but I have heard of him;
To give my poor host freedom.
HENRY BOLINGBROKE:
It is foul weather in us all, good sir,
For raising this sea-storm?
I would you had been by the ship side, to have
By many hands your father was subdued;
Till I can find occasion of revenge.
With a swain's wearing, and me, poor lowly maid,
I am glad at heart
KATHARINA:
For I have had such faults; but rather tell me,
Why he's a devil, a devil, a very fiend.
Both to defend my loyalty and truth
Such a nature,
Shut up in prison, kept without my food,
Such as I love; and you, among the store,
I know not what I shall incur to pass it,
E'en at hand, alighted by this; and therefore be
On the curl'd clouds, to thy strong bidding task
KING RICHARD III:
And 'twere the cheaper way:
I thank you. Fare you well.
I will not sup to-night.
At the queen's be't: 'good' should be pertinent
Trimm'd like a younker prancing to his love!
Labouring to save his life, and would not rather
Good night, good Captain Blunt. Come gentlemen,
Ask him his name and orderly proceed
What's to do here, Thomas tapster? let's withdraw.
And meet me presently at Berkeley.
HENRY BOLINGBROKE:
Which we have noted in you to your kin,
These words will cost ten thousand lives this day.
Hence, and shut your gates upon's.
To give your censures in this weighty business?
I'll tell thee as we pass; but this I pray,
was senseless; 'twas nothing to geld a codpiece of a
Upon a pleasing treaty, and have hearts
I will resist such entertainment till
Than can our reasons. There's no man in the world
her husband, another elevated that the oracle was
Young budding virgin, fair and fresh and sweet,
Thou that so stoutly hast resisted me,
I am his king, and he should bow his knee;
An't please you, sir, to undertake the business for
And to thy worth will add right worthy gains.
Thou hast one son; for his sake pity me,
To stop all hopes whose growth may damage me.
When thou mayst tell thy tale a nearer way?
Now, this no more dishonours you at all
The injury of tongues in courts and kingdoms
And seem'd to ask him sops as he was drinking.
GLOUCESTER:
The day to cheer and night's dank dew to dry,
A falsehood in its contrary as great
Thanks, noble peer;
By fair or foul means we must enter in,
Shalt break into corruption: thou shalt think,
Thy life answer!
Mistress, we have.
I am not yet instructed.
But that the good mind of Camillo tardied
The smallest worm will turn being trodden on,
I fear it is: and yet, methinks, it should not,
For insurrection's arguing.
That all the standers-by had wet their cheeks
Nay, 'tis no matter, sir, what he 'leges in Latin.
My sword, I say! Old Montague is come,
But what my power might else exact, like one
That gives not half so great a blow to hear
I do remember well where I should be,
Cousin of Hereford, as thy cause is right,
But thou the king. Woe doth the heavier sit,
Call all your tribes together, praise the gods,
And then dreams he of smelling out a suit;
Which fear, not reverence, makes thee to except.
Whom I left cooling of the air with sighs
There to be crowned Richard's royal queen.
O excellent motion! Fellows, let's be gone.
Your most obedient counsellor, yet that dare
again; and after it again; and over and over he
And that the queen's kindred are made gentle-folks:
Once more to hew thy target from thy brawn,
That copest with death himself to scape from it:
Tidings, as swiftly as the posts could run,
Lesser his person than an ill report;
My dreams presage some joyful news at hand:
on. She hath made me four and twenty nose-gays for
Let me but meet you, ladies, one hour hence,
Come, I have found you out a stand most fit,
Sweet sir, much better than I was; I can stand and
Sirrah, I will not bear these braves of thine.
May in the sworn twelve have a thief or two
With eight tall ships, three thousand men of war,
That, all-amazed, the priest let fall the book;
QUEEN ELIZABETH:
For certain words he spake against your grace
Muddy, ill-seeming, thick, bereft of beauty;
Than hope enjoy'd: by this the weary lords
Hath sometime loved! I take thy hand, this hand,
O, then my best blood turn
Too well, too well thou tell'st a tale so ill.
Turn terror into sport: as weeds before
SEBASTIAN:
Methinks these peers of France should smile at that.
With mine own hands I give away my crown,
Here, noble lord: what is thy will with her?
And, whiles I live, to account this world but hell,
head; that he gives entrance to such companions?
Who taught you this?
Only for saying he would make his son
Thou fond mad man, hear me but speak a word.
DUKE OF AUMERLE:
All tongues to talk their bitterest.
The daintiest last, to make the end most sweet:
Is it true too, think you?
As thou didst kill our tender brother Rutland;
A grave? O no! a lantern, slaughter'd youth,
Even in his own garments, and gave himself,
this business.
With one 'We thank you' many thousands moe
To be her men and wear her livery:
Indeed, madam?
AEdiles, seize him!
With an eye of green in't.
Di faciant laudis summa sit ista tuae!
Well, think of marriage now; younger than you,
KATHARINA:
damned for killing him, from which no warrant can defend us.
The king's son have I landed by himself;
Persuades me it is otherwise: howe'er it be,
But do not break your oaths; for of that sin
What unaccustom'd cause procures her hither?
Pay with falsehood false exacting,
You'll speak with Coriolanus.
Is full of weeds, her fairest flowers choked up,
than you'ld think, sister.
What's the matter?
Now thou'rt troublesome.
But ever see that man!
think so, which is another spur to my departure.
Whate'er thou hear'st or seest, stand all aloof,
The love of wicked men converts to fear;
In Whitsun pastorals: sure this robe of mine
See, see; what a man you are now!
Do not deny to him that you love me.
He cannot, sir; he's out at elbow.
Fled from his father, from his hopes, and with
We could at once put us in readiness,
One vial full of Edward's sacred blood,
Good morrow, neighbour Gremio.
That long have frown'd upon their enmity!
To nothing temporal.
I pray you, daughter, sing; or express yourself in a
Or Cytherea's breath; pale primroses
And sent you hither so unlike yourself?
KING RICHARD II:
Against the word:
Is not here passable.
And that he does I weep: myself am Naples,
The traces of the smallest spider's web,
Let me give humble thanks for all at once.
To yield what passes here.
Hath love in thy old blood no living fire?
That our swift-winged souls may catch the king's;
Let her alone, lady: as she is now, she will but
Well, I'll hear it, sir: yet you must not think to
To enter in the thoughts of desperate men!
QUEEN ELIZABETH:
CORIOLANUS:
O, bid me leap, rather than marry Paris,
To fright me with your sprites; you're powerful at it.
Which if they do, yet will I keep thee safe,
Nay, good, be patient.
Will't please your lordship drink a cup of sack?
Therefore love moderately; long love doth so;
yields pound and odd shilling; fifteen hundred
SEBASTIAN:
The pleasure of that madness. Let 't alone.
BRAKENBURY:
Catesby hath sounded Hastings in our business,
I would not for the wealth of all the town
That has been blue, but not her eyebrows.
And plague injustice with the pains of hell.
The faults of fools but folly.
Happy were England, would this gracious prince
Ely with Richmond troubles me more near
She shall, she shall.
Lest they desire upon this push to trouble
As cheap as lies, he sold the blood and labour
To banish your defenders; till at length
O'er courtiers' knees, that dream on court'sies straight,
The commoners, for whom we stand, but they
Farewell till soon.
that thou wilt not be drunk; but I know thou art no
In the delaying death.
Fellow Grumio!
Were feverous and did tremble.
Which you say adds to nature, is an art
So honour peereth in the meanest habit.
I'll perfect him withal, and he shall bring you
Say, Signior Gremio, What can you assure her?
And bring thee cords made like a tackled stair;
Before you had worn it out.
Plots have I laid, inductions dangerous,
Are you moved, my lord?
To think o' the teen that I have turn'd you to,
Dear, look up:
There lies the man, slain by young Romeo,
Why give you me this shame?
What, up and down, carved like an apple-tart?
Meaning the king at Pomfret. Come, let's go:
The warlike service he has done, consider; think
Bores through his castle wall, and farewell king!
Where are your mess of sons to back you now?
Yet he would be king on't.
KING LEWIS XI:
Tell thou the lamentable tale of me
Hath he set bounds betwixt their love and me?
She shall be married to this noble earl.
Your looks are pale and wild, and do import
The father, all whose joy is nothing else
He was the author, thou the instrument.
PETRUCHIO:
I aim'd so near, when I supposed you loved.
you take it not patiently, why, your mettle is the
Sirrah young gamester, your father were a fool
Are you so hot? marry, come up, I trow;
You scarce can right me throughly then to say
Again uncurse their souls; their peace is made
Behold, these are the tribunes of the people,
Yet one thing more, good Blunt, before thou go'st,
KATHARINA:
Sir, in Argier.
Thou mayst be damned for that wicked deed!
Before the time be out? no more!
As passes colouring.
Yea, leave that labour to great Hercules;
Nor any of the house of Lancaster?
Nor to be seen: my crown is called content:
Were you sworn to the duke, or to the deputy?
HORTENSIO:
Stand bare and naked, trembling at themselves?
As Ovid be an outcast quite abjured:
Call it a travel that thou takest for pleasure.
Now, if you love me, stay.
Either withdraw unto some private place,
GLOUCESTER:
KING RICHARD III:
DUKE VINCENTIO:
Most notedly, sir.
Should by the cormorant belly be restrain'd,
Thou hadst a Richard, till a Richard killed him;
Shalt stir up in Suffolk, Norfolk, and in Kent,
large cicatrices to show the people, when he shall
Love you the man that wrong'd you?
No, not till Thursday; there is time enough.
fairer face.
Shall darken him for ever.
Rather than they shall pound us up: our gates,
Then take him up and manage well the jest:
May hold together: on her frights and griefs,
For vainer hours and tutors not so careful.
And to the battle came he; where he did
My gracious sovereign, my most loving liege!
For chair and dukedom, throne and kingdom say;
LADY GREY:
Misshapen in the conduct of them both,
Which then blew bitterly against our faces,
To help me after? I will kiss thy lips;
Welcome, Harry: what, will not this castle yield?
And well she can persuade.
Did ever so long live; no sorrow
Whose father for his hoarding went to hell?
LADY CAPULET:
When, Harry, when?
Ah, kill me with thy weapon, not with words!
To whom I am subdued, are but light to me,
Remember our reward, when the deed is done.
CORIOLANUS:
JOHN OF GAUNT:
cap-a-pe; and one that will either push on or pluck
Enjoy your mistress, from the whom, I see,
Yes, I accept her, for she well deserves it;
The which no balm can cure but his heart-blood
O, then, I see Queen Mab hath been with you.
Bore many gentlemen, myself being one,
Where eyes did once inhabit, there were crept,
QUEEN ELIZABETH:
By giving liberty unto thine eyes;
The readiest way to make the wench amends
HORTENSIO:
I prithee now, sweet son, as thou hast said
Madam, if you could find out but a man
And what your pleasure is, shall satisfy me.
Was ever father so bemoan'd his son?
You are sent for to the Capitol. 'Tis thought
The County Paris, at Saint Peter's Church,
Will have fulfill'd their secret purposes;
What, pray you, became of Antigonus, that carried
The art itself is nature.
Ay, but not mine own desire.
unlawfully born. But, O, how much is the good duke
I will be sure my Katharina shall be fine.
This blue-eyed hag was hither brought with child
Broke the possession of a royal bed
Come your ways, sir; come.
With this dead-killing news!
How merited to be so; since he came,
I may not suffer you to visit them;
You are never without your tricks: you may, you may.
But she'll not stumble.
DUKE OF AUMERLE:
'Tis hoped his sickness is discharged.
If you refuse it,--as, in love and zeal,
Which held three dearly as his soul's redemption,
Than in Lord Angelo.
To fight in quarrel of the house of Lancaster.
Go, do our bidding; hence!
Most welcome!
Marry, sir, because silver hath a sweet sound.
O that ever I was born!
And quench the fire, the room is grown too hot.
ram-tender, to offer to have his daughter come into
Fear and be slain; no worse can come to fight:
And there it is in writing, fairly drawn.
Which his aspiring rider seem'd to know,
We do condemn thee to the very block
called before us. Away with her to prison! Go to;
DUKE VINCENTIO:
GLOUCESTER:
As daylight doth a lamp; her eyes in heaven
And that his country's dearer than himself;
Then with directions to repair to Ravenspurgh.
CORIOLANUS:
FRIAR LAURENCE:
But fair posterity, should hold some counsel
an into their estimation and report: but he hath so
He's very likely now to fall from him,
She had the wrong. But what said Henry's queen?
I am too sore enpierced with his shaft
Shall cross the seas, and bid false Edward battle;
Look for no less than death.
Nay, look you, sir, he tells you flatly what his
This feast of battle with mine adversary.
Repent in their election.
They must take it in sense that feel it.
As she lived now.
I could myself
Or so devote to Aristotle's cheques
makes a man a coward: a man cannot steal, but it
Does change my disposition.
Can sick men play so nicely with their names?
I have forgot that name, and that name's woe.
My damned son, which thy two sweet sons smother'd.
He shall not.
And many an old man's sigh and many a widow's,
At the prefixed hour of her waking,
He wishes earnestly you never may.
In bed asleep, while they do dream things true.
O God's lady dear!
That makes him close his eyes? I'll open them.
Upon so soft a subject as myself!
And minister correction to thy fault!
And would you not do much to do them good?
Suppose they take offence without a cause,
He cried upon it at the merest loss
Away, away, to meet the queen's great power!
Turn back and fly, like ships before the wind
For I will kiss her.
Know, I pray you,--
Marry, my lord, lest, by a multitude,
Proud can I never be of what I hate;
I warrant you, my lord.
Uncle, even in the glasses of thine eyes
lives; that I mean to make bold withal, and as you
What say you? can you love the gentleman?
Help, help, help! here's a madman will murder me.
Bid him repair to us to Ely House
Pray now, your news?
Be it forbid, my lord!
And very rich: but thou'rt too much my friend,
A velvet dish: fie, fie! 'tis lewd and filthy:
Thither where more attends you, and you slander
Whether you had not sometime in your life
What I have spoke: but farewell compliment!
KING EDWARD IV:
So many hours must I contemplate;
Not hold thee of our blood, no, not our kin,
Sneak not away, sir; for the friar and you
Thou, now a-dying, say'st thou flatterest me.
Wear both of them, for both of them are thine.
Ay, with my heart
but I shall follow it as the flesh and fortune shall
That murder'd my love's cousin, with which grief,
Kind sister, thanks: we'll enter all together.
to. Lord Angelo dukes it well in his absence; he
But for my brother not a man would speak,
Is still a dying horror!
Thy mother was a piece of virtue, and
It was the lark, the herald of the morn,
Is guilty of this lamentable chance!
church; take the priest, clerk, and some sufficient
puts transgression to 't.
You have in manner with your sinful hours
God-den, our neighbours.
O, let us hence; I stand on sudden haste.
To take the one the other, by some chance,
And, though mine enemy, restored again
And this small packet of Greek and Latin books:
the provost.
See how I am bewitch'd; behold mine arm
The widow likes it not, for she looks very sad.
KATHARINA:
What shall I swear by?
Fill all thy bones with aches, make thee roar
How long hath he been there?
There is no wrong, but every thing is right.
Provost, a word with you!
Which, without note, here's many else have done,--
To accuse this worthy man, but, in foul mouth
You shall hear more ere morning.
You were not bid to speak.
What became of his bark and his followers?
There is no other way
They have been absent: 'tis good speed; foretells
Take not the quarrel from his powerful arm;
God for his mercy! what a tide of woes
Your loving motion toward the common body,
Not possible; for who shall bear your part,
That it shall hold companionship in peace
By sovereignty of nature. First he was
QUEEN ELIZABETH:
The sun shines hot; and, if we use delay,
The entreaties of your mistress! satisfy!
Like powder in a skitless soldier's flask,
Villain, not for thy life: take up my mistress'
the inside of your purse to the outside of his hand,
impiety has made a feast of thee.
How much salt water thrown away in waste,
So in the Lethe of thy angry soul
Nay, but it is not so.
Blemish'd his gracious dam: this is not, no,
It is no other: show your wisdom, daughter,
And I am tied to be obedient;
If you may please to think I love the king
Thy deed, inhuman and unnatural,
Well, and say that Marcius
And I will send you to my brother Gloucester,
Are mock'd for valiant ignorance,
Life and these lips have long been separated:
O, let me see thee walk: thou dost not halt.
To wail the tide, as her mother doth.
I am robbed, sir, and beaten; my money and apparel
Of those physicians that first wounded thee:
Go, bear them hence; I will not hear them speak.
Signior Baptista, for this fiend of hell,
LADY CAPULET:
O true apothecary!
For, as the case now stands, it is a curse
With repetition of my Romeo's name.
In what vile part of this anatomy
Yea, brother Richard, are you offended too?
That doth utter all men's ware-a.
First, mighty sovereign, let me know your mind,
He smiled and said 'The better for our purpose.'
I have with such provision in mine art
Cuts off the ceremonious vows of love
To be or none or little; though a devil
am undone! I am undone! while I play the good
The commons hath he pill'd with grievous taxes,
Will answer in mine honour.
speech we had to such a purpose.
assembly: whither should they come?
With painted imagery had said at once
And meet him, were I tied to run afoot
If grace had bless'd thee with a fairer life.
Upon his party: he, mistrusting them,
Camillo was his help in this, his pander:
Stay, officer: he shall not go to prison.
I know, they do attend us.
Help me into some house, Benvolio,
KING RICHARD III:
For many lives stand between me and home:
O, but, sir,
Have been beholding to him in his life;
Rode he on Barbary? Tell me, gentle friend,
O Marcius, Marcius!
Notice to Escalus and Angelo,
To her acceptance; you have let him go
Upon remainder of a dear account,
Than all the rest, discharged me with these words:
Daring an opposite to every danger:
Erroneous, mutinous and unnatural,
May be put from her by society:
DUKE VINCENTIO:
Hew down and fell the hardest-timber'd oak.
As fancy values them; but with true prayers
Come, come, have with you. Wot you what, my lord?
An eye-sore to our solemn festival!
Than by self-offences weighing.
Your grant, or your denial, shall be mine:
Peace, master marquess, you are malapert:
Ay, so I did indeed.
As thou art liege-man to us, that thou carry
But send him back.
What sorrow craves acquaintance at my hand,
Too familiar
Upon their ancient malice will forget
First Citizen:
KING EDWARD IV:
I shall return before your lordship thence.
No better than a poor and loathsome beggar:
More than his singularity, he goes
Is it good den?
He flouted us downright.
Our business is not unknown to the senate; they have
Rough cradle for such little pretty ones!
And who durst mine when Warwick bent his brow?
Nay! prithee, woman,--
QUEEN ELIZABETH:
My lord, this is one Lucio's information against me.
Sorry am I that our good will effects
For the whole state, I would put mine armour on,
O God! did Romeo's hand shed Tybalt's blood?
A wisp of straw were worth a thousand crowns,
So every scope by the immoderate use
For this will out, and here I must not stay.
Before his sister should her body stoop
Here's no knavery! See, to beguile the old folks,
Claudio to prison? 'tis not so.
How ceremonious, solemn and unearthly
GLOUCESTER:
There's thy reward: be gone.
Ay, while you live, draw your neck out o' the collar.
Or wilt thou ride? thy horses shall be trapp'd,
And palm to palm is holy palmers' kiss.
despair not.
He is my father, sir; and, sooth to say,
Without control, listed to make his prey.
That could be brought to bodily act ere Rome
We stay here for the people.
AUTOLYCUS:
Is not so long as is a tedious tale.
Comfort, dear mother: God is much displeased
While he did bear my countenance in the town;
We'll calm the Duke of Norfolk, you your son.
How now! what means death in this rude assault?
KING HENRY VI:
Sent by the king your father
I dare assure you, sir, 'tis almost two;
And in that hope I throw mine eyes to heaven,
None, since the curfew rung.
And not neglected; else, if heaven would,
And heap'd sedition on his crown at home.
of; and void of all profanation in the world that
Which out of daily fortune ever taints
I will tell her, sir, that you do protest; which, as
A wise stout captain, and soon persuaded!
For she's a woman to be pitied much:
Now Warwick, tell me, even upon thy conscience,
QUEEN ELIZABETH:
Than my Lord Hastings no man might be bolder;
HORTENSIO:
dismiss the controversy bleeding the more entangled
spit in his face, so she defied him.
He hath the jewel of my life in hold,
But to defend his person from night-foes?
Which we devise him.
It stands in like request?
Two such opposed kings encamp them still
For aught I know, my lord, they do.
GLOUCESTER:
Against my canker'd country with the spleen
Attorney'd at your service.
Third Servingman:
but that a wise burgher put in for them.
Of its own kind, all foison, all abundance,
AUTOLYCUS:
Why, lamb! why, lady! fie, you slug-a-bed!
And when I wander here and there,
Mistress, what cheer?
Have caused him, by new act of parliament,
But love from love, toward school with heavy looks.
Gone already!
Did utter forth a voice. Yes, thou must die:
Master, there is three carters, three shepherds,
and a pair of sweet gloves.
Taste grief, need friends: subjected thus,
Matter of marriage was the charge he gave me,
Why, knows not Montague that of itself
O, woe the day!
The one half of my commission; and set down--
What is your quarrel? how began it first?
With all good speed at Plashy visit me.
Fell sorrow's tooth doth never rankle more
To effect this marriage, so it please my lord.
Yet in this one thing let me blame your grace,
KING EDWARD IV:
good my lord, do not recompense me in making me a cuckold.
The open ear of youth doth always listen;
Third Citizen:
In that he did the thing for which he died:
It is my fashion, when I see a crab.
The times that brought them in; so shall I do
Either this is the envy in you, folly, or mistaking:
O God, she comes!
O woful day, O woful day!
To serve me well, you all should do me duty,
is, even till the altitude of his virtue.
When most struck home, being gentle wounded, craves
Second Officer:
Ere so prevail'd with me: it will in time
KING RICHARD II:
I do not know what witchcraft's in him, but
Whose warlike ears could never brook retreat,
First Senator:
It sounds no more: and sure, it waits upon
Poor queen! how love to me and to her son
Our cousin Hereford and fell Mowbray fight:
So do I wish the crown, being so far off;
It then remains
This is it that makes me bridle passion
in the next room.
My gracious lord,--
Evermore showering? In one little body
HENRY BOLINGBROKE:
Is the determined respite of my wrongs:
But canst thou guess that he doth aim at it?
To take the urgent hour. Come, sir, away.
The heads of Oxford, Salisbury, Blunt, and Kent:
The cheapest of us is ten groats too dear.
That bottled spider, that foul bunch-back'd toad!
His garments are rich, but he wears
By my heel, I care not.
These terms of treason doubled down his throat.
There is another comfort than this world,
With all the honours on my brother: whereon,
Death makes no conquest of this conqueror;
Women will love her, that she is a woman
But milk my ewes and weep.
Come, my sweet wife, my dearest mother, and
Heat outwardly or breath within, I'll serve you
Wherein--let no man hear me--I take pride,
These news I must confess are full of grief;
Whose enmity he flung aside, and breasted
every morning.
Will I live?
But instruments of some more mightier member
As I weigh grief, which I would spare: for honour,
Some five and twenty years; and then we mask'd.
Good gentle youth, tempt not a desperate man;
Error i' the bill, sir; error i' the bill.
Suppose this arm is for the Duke of York,
You that will follow me to this attempt,
That upon Sunday is the wedding-day.
front his revenges with the easy groans of old
sign of dolour to another, she did, with an 'Alas,'
PETRUCHIO:
For with a band of thirty thousand men
No deeper wrinkles yet? hath sorrow struck
And thy abundant goodness shall excuse
BUCKINGHAM:
By cruel cruel thee quite overthrown!
for the name of king? To cabin: silence! trouble us not.
Why, then he is alive.
Thy beauty, that doth make me like thee well,
knife, tape, glove, shoe-tie, bracelet, horn-ring,
Have woe to woe, sorrow to sorrow join'd.
Indeed, I have had earnest: but I cannot with
Thou think'st there is no more such shapes as he,
Very ready, sir.
And to set on this wretched woman here
CORIOLANUS:
DUKE OF YORK:
request, I can tell you.
But as I come, I come for Lancaster.
And strew this hungry churchyard with thy limbs:
Bid them all home; he's gone, and we'll no further.
What, shall I groan and tell thee?
Then, on the other side, I cheque'd my friends.
Fairer than tongue can name thee, let me have
From slaves that apes would beat! Pluto and hell!
William Lord Hastings had pronounced your part,--
fear, the angle that plucks our son thither. Thou
More mild, but yet more harmful, kind in hatred:
your worship's pleasure I shall do with this wicked caitiff?
QUEEN ELIZABETH:
This sensible warm motion to become
Make feasts, invite friends, and proclaim the banns;
From twelve to seventy, and pouring war
Discomfortable cousin! know'st thou not
Or by the break of day disguised from hence:
What shall we do?
KING RICHARD III:
Once, sir? there was nothing done to her once.
The happy tidings of his good escape.
For those defects I have before rehearsed,
Who answer'd him, they came from Buckingham.
Your lives shall pay the forfeit of the peace.
Then, taking him from thence that is not there,
He would not stay at your petitions: made
Thou talk'st of nothing.
He could have temporized.
SEBASTIAN:
O, how it yearn'd my heart when I beheld
Go, bind thou up yon dangling apricocks,
To stop the inundation of her tears;
Good faith, and when I met this holy man,
Or wring redress from you. Hear me, O hear me, here!
And all your southern gentlemen in arms
Though yet she speak not. Mark a little while.
No, I'll nor sell nor give him: lend you him I will
Draw near,
Faith, sir, few of any wit in such matters: as they
For making up this peace!' Thou know'st, great son,
and vengeance bitter; but those that are germane to
BUCKINGHAM:
One that I would were here, Friar Lodowick.
Knows not that ever he knew me.
The gracious mark o' the land, you have obscured
how art thou fishified! Now is he for the numbers
We may live, son, to shed many more.
It is now apparent?
Who sensibly outdares his senseless sword,
I purpose not to wait on fortune till
Bid my guard watch; leave me.
If e'er again I meet him beard to beard,
Scarce serves to quench my furnace-burning heart:
The lights burn blue. It is now dead midnight.
Here is a friar, and slaughter'd Romeo's man;
Myself condemned and myself excused.
Come, come, they are almost here. How many stand
The true succeeders of each royal house,
Enforce the present execution
monstrous, and for the multitude to be ingrateful,
I grant ye.
QUEEN ELIZABETH:
Thanks, good Montgomery; but we now forget
One of our convent, and his confessor,
Of Buckingham to welcome them ashore.
Hark! he stirs: shall I strike?
Most lamentable day, most woful day,
Your tale, sir, would cure deafness.
Once stir my temper; but this virtuous maid
There shall your swords and lances arbitrate
Upon thy words, that kill mine eye and heart!
KING EDWARD IV:
Where the infectious pestilence did reign,
DUKE VINCENTIO:
And treasure of my loins; then if I would
Of such possessions and so high esteem,
To tire your royalty.
FRIAR LAURENCE:
Who nothing hurt withal hiss'd him in scorn:
First Servingman:
An he had been cannibally given, he might have
He was not so resolved when last we spake together.
By the consent of all, we were establish'd
Go make thyself like a nymph o' the sea: be subject
'Sicilia is a so-forth:' 'tis far gone,
Knock at the gate! O heavens! Spake you not these
You may go walk, and give me leave a while:
KING RICHARD II:
Most detestable death, by thee beguil'd,
To make my end too sudden: learn, good soul,
Not a word, a word; we stand upon our manners.
softly towards my kinsman's.
For yet his honour never heard a play--
a kinsman not past three quarters of a mile hence,
PRINCE EDWARD:
Saltiers, and they have a dance which the wenches
To Marcius shall be honours, though indeed
Start not; her actions shall be holy as
To have him kill a king: poor trespasses,
To trash for over-topping, new created
Is Clarence, Henry, and his son young Edward,
Their loud applause and Aves vehement;
Where great Aufidius lies: is he in Antium?
Than thou went'st forth in lamentation.
I charge thee in the princes name, obey.
POLIXENES:
Under the canopy.
That reacheth from the restful English court
the people.
First Citizen:
Marry, sir, he hath offended the law: and, sir, we
To her unhappy brother Claudio?
Come, come; let's see him out at gates; come.
Nay, an there were two such, we should have none
JOHN OF GAUNT:
POLIXENES:
Romeo, the hate I bear thee can afford
What then remains, we being thus arrived
Thereby to see the minutes how they run,
Thomas the Earl of Surrey, and himself,
Is the axe upon the block, sirrah?
I did not, sir:
Than hear say how I got them.
Thanks, brave Montgomery; and thanks unto you all:
Women are made to bear, and so are you.
Those are they
FRIAR LAURENCE:
Then thus I turn me from my country's light,
But I, who never knew how to entreat,
Looks in a glass, that shows what future evils,
That, though I want a kingdom, yet in marriage
Now I'll tell you without asking: my master is the
Thine eyes, sweet lady, have infected mine.
No, when my father York and Edward wept,
QUEEN ELIZABETH:
Breathe I against thee, upon pain of life.
Have you a father?
Madam, I know not, nor I greatly care not:
What! fear not, man, but yield me up the keys;
When I'll depose I had him in mine arms
'Tis the way
disease our better mirth.
The Volsces are in arms.
To reconcile me to his friendly peace:
If she dares trust me with her little babe,
Are they that I would have thee deal upon:
At Pembroke, or at Harford-west, in Wales.
Come, we will walk. There's other of our friends
KING HENRY VI:
But if you mind to hold your true obedience,
Unless our halberds did shut up his passage.
Our Rome hath such a soldier.'
have you whipt: so, for this time, Pompey, fare you well.
How is't, my soul? let's talk; it is not day.
First Gentleman:
Leave your prating: since these good men are
Why, this's a heavy chance 'twixt him and you,
to steal. There's not a soldier of us all, that, in
I was a poor groom of thy stable, king,
Have benched and reared to worship, who mayst see
And with a virtuous vizard hide foul guile!
true purchasing.
So, now prosperity begins to mellow
Which heavy sorrow makes them apt unto:
I would attach you all and make you stoop
Yes, better, sir.
I'faith, sir, you shall never need to fear:
Not in a grave,
Are still together, who twin, as 'twere, in love
The army of the queen mean to besiege us.
Money's a medler.
DUKE OF YORK:
I shall attend your leisure: but make haste;
O, he is even in my mistress' case,
My name hath touch'd your ears it is Menenius.
'Have I no friend will rid me of this living fear?'
For he that interrupts him shall not live.
Hath with the king's blood stain'd the king's own land.
You peers, continue this united league:
HORTENSIO:
That Warwick's bones may keep thine company.
Her knots disorder'd and her wholesome herbs
Were to incense the boar to follow us
Whose hand is that the forest bear doth lick?
Why dost thou ask again?
GLOUCESTER:
But your kind hostess. Come, I'll question you
If you have heard your general talk of Rome,
To God, his sovereign and to him disloyal;
Who have we here?
QUEEN ELIZABETH:
Reports, the Volsces with two several powers
I'll slay more gazers than the basilisk;
WESTMORELAND:
will hang them. Get you gone, and let me hear no
KING HENRY VI:
We cannot, sir, we are undone already.
Is't lawful, pray you,
Pardon, madam:
Forgot you! no, sir: I could not forget you, for I
And well we may come there by dinner-time.
Should chase us with my father, power no jot
And when the king comes, offer no violence,
Obey, and go with me; for thou must die.
Like envious floods o'er-run her lovely face,
Brother, the time and case requireth haste:
never bring them to light: would he were returned!
The garter, blemish'd, pawn'd his knightly virtue;
First Citizen:
Noble tribunes,
They love not poison that do poison need,
And in conclusion wins the king from her,
Madam, 'tis now in tune.
Yet best beseeming me to speak the truth.
Whose children he hath slain, their base throats tear
I will then give it you soundly.
O, good sir, I do.
Ah, Tranio, what a cruel father's he!
That rends the thorns and is rent with the thorns,
I mean, in bearing weight of government,
The Roman ladies bring not comfort home,
This island's mine, by Sycorax my mother,
And now forthwith shall articles be drawn
Our Earl of Warwick, Edward's greatest friend.
It adds more sorrow to my want of joy:
Be curses to yourselves? You should have said
Than when it was a-doing.
The sweetest sleep, and fairest-boding dreams
KING HENRY VI:
Forsake the court: to do't, or no, is certain
For I am proverb'd with a grandsire phrase;
My gorgeous palace for a hermitage,
fellows in the world, an a man could light on them,
Make haste; the hour of death is expiate.
Part, fools!
So minutes, hours, days, months, and years,
And ostentation of despised arms?
Thou camest--
hence to wait; I beseech you, follow straight.
Ere he can spread his sweet leaves to the air,
If thou dost find him tractable to us,
My heart this covenant makes, my hand thus seals it.
And not bewray thy treason with a blush?
You shall not choose but drink before you go:
Enforce attention like deep harmony:
My Lord of Somerset, what youth is that,
Sir, make me not your story.
DUKE OF YORK:
DUKE OF YORK:
We'll have this song out anon by ourselves: my
Four or five women once that tended me?
To ease his breast with panting.
extracting it clutch'd? What reply, ha? What
At Coventry, upon Saint Lambert's day:
Of what lies heavy to't.
KING RICHARD II:
Yourself, your queen, your son.
My lords, forbear this talk; here comes the king.
It makes the consuls base: and my soul aches
How fares our gracious lady?
Ay, good brother, or go about to think.
Revolt our subjects? that we cannot mend;
Yes, Warwick, Edward dares, and leads the way.
wore three-pile; but now I am out of service:
Ay, I thank God, my father, and yourself.
Tybalt is gone, and Romeo banished;
Should I do so, I should belie my thoughts:
I have on Angelo imposed the office;
'Tis not a visitation framed, but forced
Where it was forged, with my rapier's point.
Has censured him
Let him depart before we need his help.
Sister, content you in my discontent.
Set down by the poll?
My name, dear saint, is hateful to myself,
I'll not endure him.
Ay, it stands so that I may hardly
O, he's a limb that has but a disease;
KING HENRY VI:
That would be ten days' wonder at the least.
Thou art a fool: if Echo were as fleet,
That ever was survey'd by English eye,
Your brother dies to-morrow; be content.
With all your just proceedings in this cause.
Adding withal how blest this land would be
And thou shalt reign in quiet while thou livest.
Here comes Romeo, here comes Romeo.
What will your grace have done with Margaret?
That power I have, discharge; and let them go
This is his lordship's man.
And free access and favour as the rest:
His noble kinsman: most degenerate king!
trust you not; 'Hic steterat Priami,' take heed
My parasite, my soldier, statesman, all:
Belike she minds to play the Amazon.
To kings that fear their subjects' treachery?
Did glad my heart with hope of this young Richmond,
give your dispositions the reins, and be angry at
Go on, and fetch our horses back again.
Which the commission of thy years and art
I am thus resolved: on Sunday next you know
constable's wife any harm? I would know that of
And wrap our bodies in black mourning gowns,
My Lord of Oxford, you, Sir William Brandon,
Knows not which way to stand, to look, to speak,
She should not visit you.
Thou worthiest Marcius!
First Servant:
KING HENRY VI:
Well I will arm me, being thus forewarn'd:
My true Paulina,
I will go darkly to work with her.
With raven's feather from unwholesome fen
Were it better, I should rush in thus.
Which often, thus, correcting thy stout heart,
That trudge betwixt the king and Mistress Shore.
You are like to have a thin and slender pittance.
A mankind witch! Hence with her, out o' door:
That without desert have frown'd on me;
We met here both to thank and to remember
CORIOLANUS:
I could afflict you farther.
Warwick is chancellor and the lord of Calais;
The trembling lamb environed with wolves.
Or, by the fires of heaven, I'll leave the foe
Woe me! for what?
Here come the clusters.
Inferreth arguments of mighty strength,
Tush, tush!
As much good stay with thee as go with me!
What says King Bolingbroke? will his majesty
DUKE OF AUMERLE:
Methinks King Richard and myself should meet
Was ne'er distributed.
To make William Lord Hastings of our mind,
The noble man have mercy.
What, would you make me mad? Am not I Christopher
And now changed to 'The Beggar and the King.'
She eat no meat to-day, nor none shall eat;
poor with begging.
O, whither?
Shall do and undo as him pleaseth best.
And with thy scorns drew'st rivers from his eyes,
Get you hence, for I must go
That being pass'd for consul with full voice,
And this my neighbour too?
And once again, a pot o' the smallest ale.
I warrant you.
Be not thyself; for how art thou a king
I thank you, gentle uncle. O, my lord,
To plot, contrive, or complot any ill
What if this mixture do not work at all?
O the gods!
Where is the provost?
I know, in honour, O, that ever I
KING RICHARD II:
Of stronger earth than others. My mother bows;
Cry fie upon my grave!
Second Senator:
LADY MONTAGUE:
Ay, marry, go, I say, and fetch him hither.
KING RICHARD II:
Her body sleeps in Capel's monument,
Fetch in our wood and serves in offices
With tears augmenting the fresh morning dew.
If murdering innocents be executing,
Because I will be guiltless of the meaning.
To be the aim of every dangerous shot,
Nor mother, wife, nor England's counted queen.
I give a sparing limit to my tongue.
Hear me, my masters, and my common friends,--
As enemy to the people and his country:
The city is well stored.
So easily open?
Well, well, I see the issue of these arms:
Limit each leader to his several charge,
From whence that tender spray did sweetly spring,
That robb'd my soldiers of their heated spleen;
Where small experience grows. But in a few,
Unwieldy, slow, heavy and pale as lead.
Why, this is a passing merry one and goes to
Yea, brother of Clarence, are thou here too?
And you shall have your bosom on this wretch,
To pardon him that hath from nature stolen
3 KING HENRY VI
I'll venture so much of my hawk or hound,
What if her eyes were there, they in her head?
wrath, and turn the dregs of it upon this varlet
This bud of love, by summer's ripening breath,
Withdraw with us: and let the trumpets sound
Without suspicion.
The flatness of my misery, yet with eyes
My heart is not confederate with my hand.
Yet 'banished'? Hang up philosophy!
GLOUCESTER:
KATHARINA:
Doth couch his limbs, there golden sleep doth reign:
A heart so tender o'er it, take it hence
Or when you waked, so waked as if you slept.
'Save your honour!
Of our design. He bears himself more proudlier,
More than I have said, loving countrymen,
Look for the news that the Guildhall affords.
Then, for his mind, be Edward England's king:
That make her good? O, let her brother live!
By such invention as I can devise?
NORTHUMBERLAND:
Pale trembling coward, there I throw my gage,
Is much beyond our loss. Our hint of woe
Dost think I am so muddy, so unsettled,
O Isabel, will you not lend a knee?
To you and your behests, and am enjoin'd
My father came untimely to his death?
Faith, we hear fearful news.
How now! a conduit, girl? what, still in tears?
An old hare hoar,
O my good lord! Sweet Isabel, take my part;
He hath not money for these Irish wars,
GLOUCESTER:
Yes, he would give't thee, from this rank offence,
FRIAR LAURENCE:
To make him worthy whose offence subdues him
as a drunken sleep; careless, reckless, and fearless
Fit for her turn, well read in poetry
AUTOLYCUS:
One Isabel, a sister, desires access to you.
She hath forsworn to love, and in that vow
With a sweet fellow to't?
Were he my kinsman, brother, or my son,
As a long-parted mother with her child
Not her that chides, sir, at any hand, I pray.
As I intend to prosper and repent,
enters the confines of a tavern claps me his sword
glosses, being rather new-dyed than stained with
Forced by the tide to combat with the wind;
We prove this very hour.
Let me dispute with thee of thy estate.
Of that unsatiate Edward, noble York
which should
I rather do beseech you pardon me,
And why thou comest thus knightly clad in arms,
I told you what would come of this: beseech you,
Methinks thou speak'st not well.
I here proclaim myself thy mortal foe,
They'll sit by the fire, and presume to know
The gifts she looks from me are pack'd and lock'd
VINCENTIO:
A mother only mock'd with two sweet babes;
If I did stay to look on his intents.
To men of middle age. You're very welcome.
And most pernicious purpose! Seeming, seeming!
Sir, to satisfy you in what I have said,
Feed not thy sovereign's foe, my gentle earth,
That none but fools would keep: a breath thou art,
That have by marriage made thy daughter mine,
As near the dawning, provost, as it is,
DUKE VINCENTIO:
There is Aufidius; list, what work he makes
We are inforced to farm our royal realm;
HENRY BOLINGBROKE:
Above the clouds, as high as heaven itself?
Peering in April's front. This your sheep-shearing
God grant that some, less noble and less loyal,
Thoughts that would thick my blood.
And many strokes, though with a little axe,
Now thy proud neck bears half my burthen'd yoke;
For I have given here my soul's consent
Second Keeper:
Turn back, dull earth, and find thy centre out.
They've not prepared for us.
To offer war where they should kneel for peace;
Should die for ever.
Anon, anon!
As I bethink me, you should not be king
And pay you for your voices. 'Tis no matter;
My fortunes and my friends at stake required
Boatswain:
First Keeper:
That hand, which, for thy love, did kill thy love,
Proceed thus rashly to the villain's death,
So desperate thieves, all hopeless of their lives,
Think me for the man I am, necessity
'Jesu preserve thee! welcome, Bolingbroke!'
JOHN OF GAUNT:
For every man that Bolingbroke hath press'd
Will be my knell. Go, play, boy, play.
To keep the oath that we administer:
But bloody with the enemies of his kin.
instruments which aided to expose the child were
How he did seem to dive into their hearts
Fear you not him. Sirrah Biondello,
At each his needless heavings, such as you
Come, night; come, Romeo; come, thou day in night;
His wife is in Corioli and his child
Why whisper you, my lords, and answer not?
We have been down together in my sleep,
Behold this maid: all corners else o' the earth
Then fiery expedition be my wing,
Never, my lord; therefore prepare to die.
you are--I cannot call you Lycurguses--if the drink
To link with him that were not lawful chosen.
Death is my son-in-law, Death is my heir;
It is a kind of history.
You shall not only take the sacrament
Both of one horse?
First Murderer:
Me too, let me go thither.
No, not the expulsion of the Tarquins.
Pray you, do.
himself for joy of his found daughter, as if that
Nay, never bear me hence, dispatch me here,
any, freely give unto you this young scholar,
As if I loved my little should be dieted
With reverend fathers and well-learned bishops.
GLOUCESTER:
Are come from visiting his majesty.
A cockatrice hast thou hatch'd to the world,
Hath yet the deputy sent my brother's pardon?
For how can I help them, and not myself?
The very trick on't.
So fill'd and so becoming: in pure white robes,
And by my body's action teach my mind
Pray heartily he be at palace.
Rail on the Lord's enointed: strike, I say!
Marry, sir, I think, if you handled her privately,
O noble lord, bethink thee of thy birth,
My sovereign, with the loving citizens,
At my request he would not.
My proud heart sues, and prompts my tongue to speak.
Let what is meet be said it must be meet,
There's nothing differs but the outward fame.
Nay, then, 'tis time to stir him from his trance.
DUKE VINCENTIO:
Or ill-beseeming beast in seeming both!
You logger-headed and unpolish'd grooms!
Where shall we sojourn till our coronation?
raised the wall and houses too.
With wealth enough and young and beauteous,
Our greatest friends attend us.
monstrous villain!
Very well mended. Kiss him for that, good widow.
Which would increase his evil. He that depends
Being our kinsman, if we revel much:
beginning.
With promise of high pay and great rewards:
What, rouse thee, man! thy Juliet is alive,
Nine, sir; Overdone by the last.
who in a cheap estimation, is worth predecessors
That, if thou conquer Rome, the benefit
HENRY BOLINGBROKE:
Pray God the plants thou graft'st may never grow.
Cunning in music and the mathematics,
Now, when the bridegroom in the morning comes
Say, you chose him
First Gentleman:
Come, you are so full of cony-catching!
What follows this?
And we, in pity of the gentle king,
Thou shalt continue two and forty hours,
PRINCE EDWARD:
The dashing rocks thy sea-sick weary bark!
As any in Vienna, on my word.
DUKE VINCENTIO:
enforce them against him: we shall find this friar a
I will proclaim thee, Angelo; look for't:
And every drop cries vengeance for his death,
A creature unprepared, unmeet for death;
Give me mine own again; 'twere no good part
Perhaps thy childishness will move him more
Nay, women are frail too.
They are but beggars that can count their worth;
What could the belly answer?
KING EDWARD IV:
And why should we proclaim it in an hour before his
You have often
DUKE OF YORK:
Or whether that the body public be
To breathe this news; yet what I say is true.
SEBASTIAN:
If heaven have any grievous plague in store
The precious jewel of thy home return.
of a world ransomed, or one destroyed: a notable
FRIAR LAURENCE:
His name is Barnardine.
So she may live unscarr'd of bleeding slaughter,
And never in my life, I do protest,
Who knows not where a wasp does
And watch our vantage in this business:
And bestial appetite in change of lust;
Wilt thou not hide the trespass of thine own?
Until the heavens, envying earth's good hap,
To hide your doings; and to silence that,
For Warwick is a subtle orator,
QUEEN MARGARET:
LADY ANNE:
First Citizen:
Now, for my life, the knave doth court my love:
QUEEN MARGARET:
O, thou art deceived; I would have made it short:
Throw your mistemper'd weapons to the ground,
not wounded? he was wont to come home wounded.
What, weeping-ripe, my Lord Northumberland?
Like graves i' the holy churchyard.
Mark you that?
I'll undertake 't:
fair. The assault that Angelo hath made to you,
And bid them bring the trumpets to the gate;
O God! if my deep prayers cannot appease thee,
lay knife aboard; but she, good soul, had as lief
Second Murderer:
Though little fire grows great with little wind,
Than history can pattern, though devised
That none shall have access unto Bianca
O faithless coward! O dishonest wretch!
For exile hath more terror in his look,
Now, by Saint George, I am too young for you.
You speak a language that I understand not:
You hear my spell is lawful: do not shun her
And do not call them bastards.
Go, fool, and whom thou keep'st command.
Ay, crook-back, here I stand to answer thee,
The accuser and the accused freely speak:
Romeo, come forth; come forth, thou fearful man:
Not so well apparell'd
3 KING HENRY VI
A match! 'tis done.
Messenger:
You will be there, I know.
'Tis more than we deserve, or I expect.
I'll prove a tyrant to him. As for you,
Do so, it is a point of wisdom: fare you well.
CORIOLANUS:
Who least will seem to do so, my past life
Fare you well.
But stay a while: what company is this?
To taunt and scorn you thus opprobriously?
I would to God that the inclusive verge
Anon do meet the senate.
Were damnable.
Must strike her sail and learn awhile to serve
And see our gentle queen how well she fares:
Advance our standards, set upon our foes
HENRY BOLINGBROKE:
I come, anon.--But if thou mean'st not well,
Withal, what I have been, and what I am.
To prate and talk for life and honour 'fore
DUKE VINCENTIO:
Why, here's a change indeed in the commonwealth!
KING LEWIS XI:
Your mistress' name?
Ten days ago I drown'd these news in tears;
Would long ere this have met us on the way
A little joy enjoys the queen thereof;
fish for she would not exchange flesh with one that
How some have been deposed; some slain in war,
Buckingham's army is dispersed and scatter'd;
FRIAR LAURENCE:
in their very gesture; they looked as they had heard
Apollo, pardon
Thy exercise hath been too violent for
Of these supposed-evils, to give me leave,
And trust not simple Henry nor his oaths.
Boy, this shall not excuse the injuries
But knows he thinks that he knows Isabel's.
This is dear mercy, and thou seest it not.
I might call him
I know not what to say: but give me your hands;
HENRY BOLINGBROKE:
Woe to the land that's govern'd by a child!
done, for thou hast more of the wild-goose in one of
Tullus Aufidius then had made new head?
CORIOLANUS:
'Twas a commodity lay fretting by you:
Mine ears against your suits are stronger than
Doth much excuse the appertaining rage
Never to marry but by my free leave?
Hear me, people; peace!
Beseech you, give me leave to retire myself.
made me businesses which none without thee can
That have beheld the doing.
Dive, thoughts, down to my soul: here
If now I court not but omit, my fortunes
Most valour, spoke not for them: the accusation
First Senator:
an egg for quarrelling: thou hast quarrelled with a
A little more lenity to lechery would do no harm in
Conjectural marriages; making parties strong
We are true subjects to the king, King Edward.
Ill mayst thou thrive, if thou grant any grace!
In human action and capacity,
PETRUCHIO:
Heaven give your spirits comfort!
Than can the substance of ten thousand soldiers
As it is here set down.
The hand that hath made you fair hath made you good:
That set'st the word itself against the word!
As far as Calais, to mine uncle's head?'
Your mother well hath pray'd, and prove you true.
have purchased as many diseases under her roof as come to--
Out, you green-sickness carrion! out, you baggage!
DUKE VINCENTIO:
PETRUCHIO:
all,--we shall advise this wronged maid to stead up
With Cain go wander through shades of night,
And patient underbearing of his fortune,
Hadst thou beheld--
Avoid what's grown than question how 'tis born.
Coriolanus, that they are in a ripe aptness to take
'Tis ten to one it maim'd you two outright.
KING RICHARD II:
This a consul? no.
Second Servant:
Limps after in base imitation.
It rested in your grace
With the consent of supreme Jove, inform
Break off thy song, and haste thee quick away:
We shall be shorten'd in our aim, which was
My brother slew no man; his fault was thought,
Think what you will, we seize into our hands
You take my part from me, sir; I have the most cause
A pretty tale: it may be you have heard it;
Third Servant:
No, by my life.
By need and accident. What train?
But nothing alter'd: what I was, I am;
FRIAR LAURENCE:
Blubbering and weeping, weeping and blubbering.
Upon record, my gracious lord.
A spider steep'd, and one may drink, depart,
GLOUCESTER:
Not changing heart with habit, I am still
All ready; and therefore, I pray thee, news.
Sir, you have done enough, and have perform'd
We make woe wanton with this fond delay:
Flock to their aid, and still their power increaseth.
The thunder-like percussion of thy sounds,
There's some among you have beheld me fighting:
And, as the jest did glance away from me,
The wanton Edward, and the lusty George?
When you disgraced me in my embassade,
No, my lord, I'll fight.
Loved none in the world so well as Lucentio.
That, with the fusty plebeians, hate thine honours,
KING HENRY VI:
Your worship is deceived; the gown is made
Masterly done:
Until the duke take order for his burial:
How the dispatch is made, and in what fashion,
More learned than the ears--waving thy head,
When, by and by, the din of war gan pierce
Little have you to say
Made me a looker on here in Vienna,
As every present time doth boast itself
Relish a truth like us, inform yourselves
And bound I am to Padua; there to visit
And twelve tight galleys: these I will assure her,
BUCKINGHAM:
Having bound up the threatening twigs of birch,
The trumpets, sackbuts, psalteries and fifes,
But rather wishing a more strict restraint
But to confirm my curses! Could I meet 'em
Or a half-moon made with a pen.
The King of Naples, being an enemy
The old priest of Saint Luke's church is at your
Stays but the summons of the appellant's trumpet.
PRINCE EDWARD:
Of what is to be dreaded.
treasonable abuses!
Than to accomplish twenty golden crowns!
But that you have your father's bosom there
bringings-forth, and he shall appear to the
There is no truth at all i' the oracle:
The form of death: meantime I writ to Romeo,
GLOUCESTER:
Nor thou within the compass of my curse.
The dateless limit of thy dear exile;
thou not the air of the court in these enfoldings?
For them to play at will. How came the posterns
I am glad he's come, howsoe'er he comes.
And, if you will, tell what hath happened,
Tut, I can counterfeit the deep tragedian;
GLOUCESTER:
To wake our peace, which in our country's cradle
Prevail not, go and see: if you can bring
Thou liest: his father is come from Padua and here
And loves not me, be you, good lord, assured
To bring the roof to the foundation,
And barbarism itself have pitied him.
It shall be so; he shall to Brittany.
As to us, to all the world, that Caius Marcius
GLOUCESTER:
Temptations have since then been born to's; for
Give me thy hand, Kate: I will unto Venice,
Second Servingman:
In this resolve: I'll send a friar with speed
KING RICHARD II:
In common worldly things, 'tis call'd ungrateful,
Tell him the queen hath heartily consented
will also be the bondage of certain ribbons and gloves.
The lamb will never cease to follow him.
Not sleeping, to engross his idle body,
The time hath been,
SEBASTIAN:
And from my soul too;
Than carry it but by the suit of the gentry to him,
Tush, I will stir about,
By and by.
That were some spite: my invocation
So will it, madam till I lie with you.
Hail, noble Marcius!
Fair lords, take leave and stand not to reply.
PETRUCHIO:
And in my temper soften'd valour's steel!
Farewell: buy food, and get thyself in flesh.
Shall I bring thee on the way?
Be to thy person, noble father-in-law!
Then all afire with me: the king's son, Ferdinand,
Come home to ye!--you must retire yourself
3 KING HENRY VI
My lord, there needs no such apology:
But wherefore stay we? 'tis no time to talk.
They call for dates and quinces in the pastry.
DUCHESS OF YORK:
If heaven will take the present at our hands.
reputation. Come, shall we to this gear?
him: something too crabbed that way, friar.
honour, in giving him our own voices with our own
For gnarling sorrow hath less power to bite
He wonders to what end you have assembled
I know not.
QUEEN ELIZABETH:
Drop on you both! a south-west blow on ye
I never heard the absent duke much detected for
Upon your favours swims with fins of lead
If, Tullus,
as you are, against 'em: know you me yet?
POLIXENES:
O you beast!
KATHARINA:
The valiant Paris seeks you for his love.
It will let in and out the enemy
KING RICHARD II:
Henceforth I never will be Romeo.
Ah, boy, if any life be left in thee,
Which I with some unwillingness pronounce:
That I'll straight do; and, knowing myself again,
The thought of my revenges that way
Upon my body with their hellish charms?
My loving lord, I take my leave of you;
But leave it all to God. whither away?
persuasion can with ease attempt you, I will go
Second Lady:
Too great oppression for a tender thing.
Ye see, I drink the water of mine eyes.
Of my young play-fellow.
For now they kill me with a living death.
CORIOLANUS:
O heavy lightness! serious vanity!
But follow me, and Edward shall be ours.
Thou hast howl'd away twelve winters.
Why uncle, thou hast many years to live.
Then my account I well may, give,
KING RICHARD II:
The fringed curtains of thine eye advance
He would have weigh'd thy brother by himself
me asleep, for I am very heavy?
And to that end I shortly mind to leave you.
'Redime te captum quam queas minimo.'
My lord, in the base court he doth attend
And given me justice, justice, justice, justice!
And even here brake off, and came away.
As that the sin hath brought you to this shame,
DUKE OF AUMERLE:
Sir Thomas Lovel and Lord Marquis Dorset,
So I would you did; then 'twere past all doubt
For all the rest is held at such a rate
Save back to England, all the world's my way.
and make a vassal of him.
When you have vow'd, you must not speak with men
Where you shall be an everlasting leiger:
Stanley did dream the boar did raze his helm;
It fits, when such a villain is a guest:
Where words are scarce, they are seldom spent in vain,
GLOUCESTER:
Though he divide the realm and give thee half,
The washing of ten tides!
Balm his foul head in warm distilled waters
In wholesome counsel to his unstaid youth?
customary gown.
I should inform thee farther. Lend thy hand,
By leaving earth? comfort me, counsel me.
QUEEN ELIZABETH:
Had rather have us win than him they follow:
It would beseem the Lord Northumberland
Thy tears are womanish; thy wild acts denote
I see the play so lies
And so are like to do.
BALTHASAR:
Your suit's unprofitable; stand up, I say.
Through fair Verona; find those persons out
Your brother is a forfeit of the law,
What pledge have we of thy firm loyalty?
Your right depends not on his life or death.
Your honour and your goodness is so evident
Say, 'pardon' first, and afterwards 'stand up.'
both sides. Farewell: yet for the love I bear my
Sir, he may live:
How now, fair lords! What fare? what news abroad?
Faith, I know not what to say.
Should a villain say so,
What is't o'clock?
To keep him safely till his day of trial.
KING EDWARD IV:
Receive in either by this dear encounter.
Peter, take my fan, and go before and apace.
And these and all are all amiss employ'd.
You have not dared to break the holy seal
Shall be when your first queen's again in breath;
Appear'd to me last night, for ne'er was dream
Renowned prince, how shall poor Henry live,
Thou art always figuring diseases in me; but thou
Could you not take some occasion without giving?
If I thought that, I tell thee, homicide,
There was no link to colour Peter's hat,
Who can do good on him?
Come, strike up!
KING EDWARD IV:
Then she hath sworn that she will still live chaste?
With ransom of such shame. Would yet he had lived!
From fasting maids whose minds are dedicate
Speak 'pardon' as 'tis current in our land;
QUEEN ELIZABETH:
I would Friar Peter--
For love of Edward's offspring in my womb:
Tybalt, liest thou there in thy bloody sheet?
Had he been slain, we should have heard the news;
Is that the rebels have consumed with fire
Here, sirrah Grumio; knock, I say.
As potent as a lord's. Will you go yet?
Thou liest, malignant thing! Hast thou forgot
Now, Warwick, wilt thou ope the city gates,
Third Watchman:
With the least cause these his new honours, which
To wit, an indigested and deformed lump,
Our coronation: lords, prepare yourselves.
A lady like me, with a love even such,
Ah, would the scandal vanish with my life,
What are you sewing here? A fine spot, in good
Respecting her that's gone. Besides, the gods
her;' and where some stretch-mouthed rascal would,
Of the whole body. The belly answer'd--
And begin, 'Why to me?'
Match not the high perfection of my loss:
lately came from the king, commands the contrary.
CORIOLANUS:
Apollo's angry; and the heavens themselves
It is a comforter.
And there receive her approbation:
From the dead temples of this bloody wretch
What is the matter with our cousin now?
These griefs, these woes, these sorrows make me old.
This news is mortal to the queen: look down
'An if a man did need a poison now,
What fear is this which startles in our ears?
FRIAR LAURENCE:
Ay, all of them at Bristol lost their heads.
Doth add more grief to too much of mine own.
Because a bard of Ireland told me once
'Good Gloucester' and 'good devil' were alike,
But such as I, without your special pardon,
At this same ancient feast of Capulet's
Truly, officer, because he hath some offences in him
Shall I be plain? I wish the bastards dead;
We are tougher, brother,
entirely drunk. We have very oft awaked him, as if
Then reason safely with you. Therefore, be it known,
That their events can never fall out good.
His deeds with doing them, and is content
And throw them in the entrails of the wolf?
Being once gangrened, is not then respected
To whose high will we bound our calm contents.
Scandal'd the suppliants for the people, call'd them
Ten the clock there. Give me a calendar.
It must and shall be so: content thyself.
And laboured all I could to do him right;
And what said the gallant?
These lords, my noble fellows, if they please,
Like perspectives, which rightly gazed upon
By envy's hand and murder's bloody axe.
Well, you are come to me in a happy time;
It is, it is: hie hence, be gone, away!
ones and millions.
I slew him not; but to my own disgrace
No, say'st me so, friend? What countryman?
Go levy men, and make prepare for war;
Who has a charter to extol her blood,
What custom wills, in all things should we do't,
That art to me as secret and as dear
which now shall die in oblivion and thou return
And unrespective boys: none are for me
Bring me my boots: I will unto the king.
thee; look thee, a bearing-cloth for a squire's
O, had thy grandsire with a prophet's eye
As with a man by his own alms empoison'd,
Have you no countermand for Claudio yet,
Told thee no lies, made thee no mistakings, served
And therefore I'll uncrown him ere't be long.
Sir, those cold ways,
Titus Lartius writes, they fought together, but
You must not speak of that: you must desire them
O, God defend my soul from such deep sin!
Pleased you to do't at peril of your soul,
Lord George your brother, Norfolk and myself,
PETRUCHIO:
BIONDELLO:
If God will be revenged for this deed.
This deserves death.
My liberty.
You have a son, Aumerle, my noble cousin;
He had, my lord; and that it was which caused
Why brother Rivers, are you yet to learn
CORIOLANUS:
If this prove true, they'll pay for't:
To triumph, like an Amazonian trull,
No countermand; no such example have we:
Tendering the precious safety of my prince,
Is father, mother, Tybalt, Romeo, Juliet,
Wherein our entertainment shall shame us we will be
Romeo shall thank thee, daughter, for us both.
there's some boot.
Brother, good day; what means this armed guard
The gods be good to us! Come, masters, let's home.
That fill his ears with such dissentious rumours.
And those who have the wit to claim the place:
KING RICHARD III:
You understand me: over and beside
I speak to subjects, and a subject speaks,
Inclinable to honour and advance
I'll fight with none but thee; for I do hate thee
I cannot bound a pitch above dull woe:
What satisfaction canst thou have to-night?
No matter, then, who see it;
That living mortals, hearing them, run mad:--
Then know, that from my soul I love thy daughter.
Who would believe me? O perilous mouths,
serves a bad woman; whose house, sir, was, as they
execution: you are condemned, our general has sworn
And Juliet bleeding, warm, and newly dead,
Because that now it lies you on to speak
Messenger:
Her new-built virtue and obedience.
To entertain these fair well-spoken days,
First Senator:
With bats and clubs? The matter? speak, I pray you.
Hath power to keep you king in spite of all.
Once in a month recount what thou hast been,
Hath wash'd thy sallow cheeks for Rosaline!
'This we received;' and each in either side
O grave and good Paulina, the great comfort
More direful hap betide that hated wretch,
Speak not, reply not, do not answer me;
will make much of your voices, and so trouble you no further.
Of death, contagion, and unnatural sleep:
'Tis a good hearing when children are toward.
Third Servant:
Perhaps they had ere this, but that they stay
Messenger:
Second Conspirator:
The supreme seat, the throne majestical,
I should do so in honour: I am in this,
'Tis but thy name that is my enemy;
To the lascivious pleasing of a lute.
POLIXENES:
In troth, there's wondrous things spoke of him.
I love thee well, in that thou likest it not.
Have wrought the easy-melting king like wax.
She was, good Curtis, before this frost: but, thou
To-morrow I intend to hunt again.
KING EDWARD IV:
That marks thee out for hell: I say, thou liest,
Which here you urge to prove us enemies,
And art thou changed? pronounce this sentence then,
In resolution as I swore before.
As my Antigonus to break his grave
I every day expect an embassage
No heart among you? or had you tongues to cry
What may be sworn by, both divine and human,
Enough, my lord.
And will, I fear, revolt on Hereford's side.
Shall, for that vast of night that they may work,
it with stamped coin, not stabbing steel; therefore
Nor do I thee: though I did wish him dead,
Corioli like a planet: now all's his:
Which now mistrust no parcel of my fear,
of natures: she, having the truth of honour in her,
How say you to a fat tripe finely broil'd?
Either new, or by remissness new-conceived,
But learn my lessons as I please myself.
The mayor is here at hand: intend some fear;
KING RICHARD III:
GLOUCESTER:
I thought, at least, he would have said the king;
Alack, for pity!
This way the coverlet, another way the sheets:
Sir, believe this,
FRIAR LAURENCE:
Upon my faith and honour.
Your crown content and you must be contented
Tell me not, friar, that thou hear'st of this,
Which of you trembles not that looks on me?
To England's king in lawful marriage.
JOHN OF GAUNT:
with the other confederate companion!
That he dares ne'er come back to challenge you;
Usurp the just proportion of my sorrow?
To prick thy finger, though to wound his heart:
GLOUCESTER:
My holy sir, none better knows than you
Shows us but this: I am sworn brother, sweet,
Skipper, stand back: 'tis age that nourisheth.
himself fears it not from another: let your general
are: but precise villains they are, that I am sure
Third Servingman:
DUKE VINCENTIO:
When I shall ask the banns and when be married.
Tell me what state, what dignity, what honour,
Look to thy bark: I'll not be long before
Second Gentleman:
Five men to twenty! though the odds be great,
That with the king here resteth in his tent?
Second Murderer:
Poor Clarence did forsake his father, Warwick;
Unless to spy my shadow in the sun
I long till Edward fall by war's mischance,
murderer dead,
And chides the sea that sunders him from thence,
Dashes the fire out. O, I have suffered
Good or bad?
too rough;
on him, I charge you, in the duke's name. O, my
QUEEN MARGARET:
The earldom of Hereford and the moveables
Hear nought from Rome in private. Your request?
Had part in this fair maid; now heaven hath all,
O, ay, Curtis, ay: and therefore fire, fire; cast
are many, or else your actions would grow wondrous
Your only choice.
BIONDELLO:
False to his children or his wife's allies
My wretchedness unto a row of pins,
Will prove too bloody, and the end of it
'Tis a lucky day, boy, and we'll do good deeds on't.
LADY CAPULET:
As 'longeth to a lover's blessed case!
That quench the fire of your pernicious rage
O, fie, fie, fie!
To greet a man not worth her pains, much less
To give or to forgive; but when we have stuff'd
First Murderer:
To unloose this tied-up justice when you pleased:
This is the truth, or let Benvolio die.
Well, we may meet again.
There is none worthy,
Which, to the spire and top of praises vouch'd,
For on thy fortune I repose myself.
Good even, good father.
A thousand times good night!
In murders and in outrage, boldly here;
To whom they go to. What will you read to her?
To think but nobly of my grandmother:
Messenger:
Thy father hath.
Tedious it were to tell, and harsh to hear:
Northumberland, say thus the king returns:
Look, therefore, Lewis, that by this league and marriage
The prayers of holy saints and wronged souls,
Join'd with Aufidius, leads a power 'gainst Rome,
Who lets it hop a little from her hand,
Why, what a ruthless thing is this in him, for the
I have confess'd her and I know her virtue.
Thou wilt be taken. Stay awhile! Stand up;
And be it moon, or sun, or what you please:
When they do homage to this simple peasant.
That bear in them one and the self-same tongue,
'Tis a wonder, by your leave, she will be tamed so.
So fearful were they of infection.
Indeed, brother-in-law was the farthest off you
A thousand flatterers sit within thy crown,
That none of you may live your natural age,
In the remembrance of so fair a dream.
Than is the coal of fire upon the ice,
An if he may, then am I lawful king;
While we return these dukes what we decree.
all the rest from their functions: they put forth
And what makes robbers bold but too much lenity?
Second Senator:
And in their triumph die, like fire and powder,
That when the searching eye of heaven is hid,
But only they have privilege to live.
Of much less value is my company
I thank you, sir.
I live to look upon their tragedy.
The nature of our seats and make the rabble
And slew your fathers, and with colours spread
To Lynn, my lord,
My lord, my answer is--to Lancaster;
Speak ere thou diest.
Away! let's go learn the truth of it.
And, as he fell, did Romeo turn and fly.
BUCKINGHAM:
Why should you sigh, my lord?
May seem as shy, as grave, as just, as absolute
Appear in person here in court. Silence!
thy conscience flies out.
Messenger:
Come you hither to me, Master tapster. What's your
That sought at Oxford thy dire overthrow.
Messenger:
Henry Bolingbroke
To see her noble lord restored to health,
When most the truth; which I receive much better
The nobles they are fled, the commons they are cold,
I'll reconcile me to Polixenes,
My lord, you told me you would tell the rest,
Who was the model of thy father's life.
This nurse, this teeming womb of royal kings,
That ever graced me in thy company?
That shake not, though they blow perpetually.
Come, poor babe:
To the palace, an it like your worship.
In time I may believe, yet I mistrust.
How now, my lord, what say the citizens?
Whose duty is deceiveable and false.
GLOUCESTER:
Our prayers do out-pray his; then let them have
Master, for my hand,
Poor sacrifices of our enmity!
God keep the prince from all the pack of you!
The next news is, I have to London sent
Now, therefore, be it known to noble Lewis,
QUEEN MARGARET:
Our gentry than our parents' noble names,
Than most have of his age.
I had been mercenary.
Against our substitute! Let this friar be found.
At what o'clock to-morrow
My native English, now I must forego:
What answers Clarence to his sovereign's will?
Sweet love, I see, changing his property,
Above the morning lark or wilt thou hunt?
The medicine of our house, how shall we do?
And make bold power look pale--they threw their caps
In this just suit come I to move your grace.
not there for the goose.
Go to; let that be mine:
But, soft! here come my executioners.
That he is bound to? Wife, thou art a fool.
'Twixt my extremes and me this bloody knife
Or, if not so, until the sun be set:
I must eat my dinner.
KING EDWARD IV:
LADY ANNE:
Methought I saw a thousand fearful wrecks;
So I might live one hour in your sweet bosom.
The aediles, ho!
So doth my heart misgive me, in these conflicts
Your highness said even now, I made you a duke:
First Murderer:
That there's no hoped-for mercy with the brothers
And make us wade even in our kindred's blood,
All things in common nature should produce
For he fears none.
Upon his body that slaughter'd him!
KING RICHARD II:
Why, York, what wilt thou do?
Hast thou that holy feeling in thy soul,
Then pardon him, sweet father, for my sake.
Who's this? O God! it is my father's face,
Mine innocency and Saint George to thrive!
Than twenty of their swords: look thou but sweet,
spectatorship, and crueller in suffering; behold now
O, do not slander him, for he is kind.
If love have touch'd you, nought remains but so,
But ere I last received the sacrament
Look here, I throw my infamy at thee
PETRUCHIO:
faults I have committed to your worship and to give
And I choose Clarence only for protector.
HENRY BOLINGBROKE:
Who thunders to his captives blood and death,
Mistake me not, my lord; 'tis not my meaning
I never did incense his majesty
In sign of truth, I kiss your highness' hand.
Ignomy in ransom and free pardon
To-morrow then belike shall be the day,
To play the broker in mine own behalf;
Thine eye begins to speak; set thy tongue there;
LADY ANNE:
No, my good lord, my friends are in the north.
Will to your mother, to entreat of her
My lord, I had forgot to tell your lordship,
HORTENSIO:
Till time lend friends and friends their helpful swords.
Fairly offer'd.
Who even in pure and vestal modesty,
AUTOLYCUS:
Go to, go to!
I sell thee poison; thou hast sold me none.
That won you without blows! Despising,
Your gates against my force. Yet, for I loved thee,
I' faith, he'll have a lusty widow now,
and I will have more time to prepare me, or they
The air hath got into my deadly wounds,
Why do you wring your hands, and beat your breast,
Temperance was a delicate wench.
Which serves it in the office of a wall,
Your friends at Pomfret, they do need the priest;
I'll not be by the while: my liege, farewell:
were she earthly, no nobler,--whither do you follow
I never thought it possible or likely;
the shearers, three-man-song-men all, and very good
DUKE VINCENTIO:
To the duke himself, to tax him with injustice?
Cleave in the midst, and perish.
Sweet Kate, embrace her for her beauty's sake.
Only their ends
you? Show your knave's visage, with a pox to you!
You shall not be
So, so: farewell; we are gone.
The army of the queen hath got the field:
Shall make me chide thee, if not hate thee. What!
MAMILLIUS:
I am inform'd that he comes towards London,
Was in the wreck; and, but he's something stain'd
companions, is all ready, and all things neat?
Or dedicate his beauty to the sun.
For that my sovereign liege was in my debt
Two lads that thought there was no more behind
Beseech you, tribunes, hear me but a word.
I am content.
These nails should rend that beauty from my cheeks.
Stay, then; I'll go alone. Fear comes upon me:
Thy father, Minos, that denied our course;
ANTIGONUS:
you out of reprieve and pardon.
Which I have better'd rather than decreased:
DUKE OF YORK:
But yet a brain that leads my use of anger
Why, 'tis no great matter; for a very little thief of
It boots not to resist both wind and tide.
Supplied with worthy men! plant love among 's!
DUCHESS OF YORK:
Did perish with the infant. 'Tis your counsel
Ye cannot reason almost with a man
out of the court: they cherish it to make it stay
finger and his thumb, as one would set up a top.
Shall have my Bianca's love.
I do not know that Englishman alive
For more amazement. If you can behold it,
Your mother was most true to wedlock, prince;
Then, seeing 'twas he that made you to depose,
Left her in her tears, and dried not one of them
Welcome, gentlemen! ladies that have their toes
Nature dispenses with the deed so far
With all the effect of love.
The noble duke hath sworn his coming is
Would fain have come with me to meet your grace,
You know me, do you not?
I will give you the minstrel.
Our knees shall kneel till to the ground they grow:
O God, which this blood madest, revenge his death!
say, plucked down in the suburbs; and now she
Faith, sirrah, an you'll not knock, I'll ring it;
Not so, not so; his life is parallel'd
And rather proved the sliding of your brother
He'ld sow't with nettle-seed.
Great men may jest with saints; 'tis wit in them,
CORIOLANUS:
QUEEN ELIZABETH:
As the most noble corse that ever herald
To gather in some debts, my son Lucentio
My bosom's lord sits lightly in his throne;
Within the limits of yon lime and stone:
Whilst all tongues cried 'God save thee,
We will so: almost all
Immediate sentence then and sequent death
Where is Lord Stanley quarter'd, dost thou know?
KING RICHARD II:
Yea, look'st thou pale? let me see the writing.
And come now to create you Duke of York.
Which, I dare vouch, is more than that he hath,
BUCKINGHAM:
Which was, that he, in lieu o' the premises
Than seek the end of one, thou shalt no sooner
PETRUCHIO:
Always obedient to your grace's will,
piercing statutes daily, to chain up and restrain
LADY CAPULET:
In blood of those that had encounter'd him:
To warn false traitors from the like attempts.
From France?
To be o'erpower'd; and wilt thou, pupil-like,
Your wives shall welcome home the conquerors;
Than bear so low a sail, to strike to thee.
Seek you to seize and gripe into your hands
Second Patrician:
Then make your garden rich in gillyvors,
He hath ribbons of an the colours i' the rainbow;
He who the sword of heaven will bear
Without assistance.
You find him like a soldier: do not take
You have heard of my poor services, i' the love
sworn brother, a very simple gentleman! I have sold
To bid me trudge:
My heart will be a burthen to me. Leave me,
Come, lead me to the block; bear him my head.
I know not whether to depart in silence,
Did, as he vouches, misreport your grace.
Which as they kiss consume: the sweetest honey
Which grieves me when I see my shame in him.
It shall be still thy true love's recompense:
Your plaintain-leaf is excellent for that.
I will not seal your knowledge with showing them. I
Thou'rt tired, then, in a word, I also am
O, was she so? I must
You shall go see your pupils presently.
time has yet to come that she was ever respected
Where is your mother?'
The earth hath swallow'd all my hopes but she,
'Twixt his unkindness and his kindness; the one
Stay, Edward.
Come hither, you rogue. What, have you forgot me?
And force the tyrant from his seat by war.
Cousin of Hereford, what dost thou object
WESTMORELAND:
say he lies?
Thy thoughts with nobleness; that thou mayst prove
HENRY BOLINGBROKE:
Is not your father grown incapable
Welcome home, Grumio!
Than these poor compounds that thou mayst not sell.
Then let us take a ceremonious leave
My praises made thee first a soldier, so,
down, king!
Be he unto me! this do I beg of God,
A very superficial, ignorant, unweighing fellow.
Our sorrow with our comfort.
Condition!
That only Warwick's daughter shall be thine.
Uninhabitable and almost inaccessible,--
Thy valiantness was mine, thou suck'dst it from me,
With heigh! the sweet birds, O, how they sing!
BRAKENBURY:
Not rash like his accusers, and thus answer'd:
Edward the Fourth, by the grace of God, king of
My lord, I warrant you we will play our part,
Ere I let fall the windows of mine eyes:
More rich for what they yielded.
that is a prisoner nine years old.
Second Citizen:
That issue out of dust. Happy thou art not;
No, indeed, sir, not of a pin; you are therein in
For still thy eyes, which I may call the sea,
Even in these honest mean habiliments:
DUKE VINCENTIO:
That it shall render vengeance and revenge
Two Cliffords, as the father and the son,
But sanctuary children ne'er till now.
Madam, we'll dance.
I would I had some flowers o' the spring that might
And by the worth and honour of himself,
Why follow'd not, when she said 'Tybalt's dead,'
Whom I employ'd was pre-employ'd by him:
Dispatch it presently; the hour draws on
I cannot do it; yet I'll hammer it out.
Lest that thy love prove likewise variable.
KATHARINA:
and your sister. Angelo had never the purpose to
man; but, I'll warrant you, when I say so, she looks
Go you the next way with your findings. I'll go see
You have, my lord: would it might please your grace,
DUKE VINCENTIO:
That princely novice, was struck dead by thee?
O, no, my dream was lengthen'd after life;
Give mistress Shore one gentle kiss the more.
Then, in the name of God and all these rights,
Now, by my seat's right royal majesty,
If then we shall shake off our slavish yoke,
Women may fall, when there's no strength in men.
In your lord's scale is nothing but himself,
Give me thy hand.
Well, thou hast comforted me marvellous much.
So thrive I in my dangerous attempt
Farewell: if heart's presages be not vain,
Choose out some secret place, some reverend room,
Or am I mad, hearing him talk of Juliet,
More noble blows than ever thou wise words;
What an exchange had this been without boot! What
CORIOLANUS:
I will, and know her mind early to-morrow;
Which you weep for.
PETRUCHIO:
This lady's husband, Sir Richard Grey, was slain,
You should account me the more virtuous that I have
They have not been commanded, mighty sovereign:
HENRY BOLINGBROKE:
DUKE VINCENTIO:
For the flowers now, that frighted thou let'st fall
Stain all your edges on me. Boy! false hound!
Alas, that love, whose view is muffled still,
My lord, I'll tell my lady you will come.
My prisoner? or my guest? by your dread 'Verily,'
God will revenge it. But come, let us in,
But O, the thorns we stand upon! Camillo,
for the which you are to do me both a present and a
So, sir, heartily well met, and most glad of your company.
That which shall break his neck or hazard mine,
Be singly counterpoised. At sixteen years,
Dismiss them home.
malice in my breath. Meeting two such wealsmen as
Go, bid thy master rise and come to me
More bound to 's mother; yet here he lets me prate
Then, grandam, you conclude that he is dead.
Assemble presently the people hither;
How could that be?
And held in idle price to haunt assemblies
Which should undo more doing: ay, and thou,
And bear this work of heaven with patience:
Beside, so qualified as may beseem
From Tamworth thither is but one day's march.
As I can change these poor accoutrements,
Prithee now, say you will, and go about it.
Romeo, will you come to your father's? we'll
LADY ANNE:
Messenger:
I take my leave with many thousand thanks.
HORTENSIO:
him to prison! Where is the provost? Away with him
I cannot joy, until I be resolved
That she is busy and she cannot come.
Was mutually committed?
FRIAR LAURENCE:
Where serpents are; chain me with roaring bears;
To strike him dead, I hold it not a sin.
Than shame to the Romans: and we here deliver,
The law hath not been dead, though it hath slept:
PETRUCHIO:
An it had not fallen flat-long.
Or, he that slew her brothers and her uncles?
Let us assail the family of York.
The former agents, if they did complain,
Be pitiful, dread lord, and grant it then.
Make bold her bashful years with your experience;
Dispatch, I prithee.
Fear you his tyrannous passion more, alas,
What figure of us think you he will bear?
For it excels your first: or if it did not,
First Soldier:
No, not a man comes for redress of thee;
Some Neapolitan, or meaner man of Pisa.
fire, or shall I complain on thee to our mistress,
I beseech you, sir, look in this gentleman's face.
Consuming means, soon preys upon itself.
Hang, cur! hang, you whoreson, insolent noisemaker!
Not with the empty hollowness, but weight:
They are free men, but I am banished.
I will go meet the ladies. This Volumnia
Faith, he is gone unto the taming-school.
Go, hop me over every kennel home,
FERDINAND:
Then is he more beholding to you than I.
It is a sleepy language and thou speak'st
Soft! take me with you, take me with you, wife.
Of healths five-fathom deep; and then anon
Sometime she driveth o'er a soldier's neck,
And tell sad stories of the death of kings;
Ay, but the mustard is too hot a little.
by law: I'll not budge an inch, boy: let him come,
For now hath time made me his numbering clock:
Of the all-building law; and that there were
Well, my lord,
Be round impaled with a glorious crown.
Uncle, this is a Montague, our foe,
GLOUCESTER:
worst thing about him, how could Master Froth do the
As I had title in thy noble husband!
He does it under name of perfect love;
Not in my house, Lucentio; for, you know,
KING RICHARD III:
LADY CAPULET:
She hung about my neck; and kiss on kiss
It is; you lie, you lie:
fairly last night.
Thy country's strength and weakness,--thine own ways;
From course required; or else thou must be counted
You should have ta'en the advantage of his choler
To speak, as from his mouth, what he doth know
Coriolanus will carry it.
But, most of all, agreeing with the proclamation.
Third Citizen:
What stay had we but Clarence? and he's gone.
Which quired with my drum, into a pipe
Lo, in these windows that let forth thy life,
But in that crystal scales let there be weigh'd
Both you and I; for Romeo is exiled:
And in Apollos name, his oracle.
The white sheet bleaching on the hedge,
Well, I will for refuge straight to Bristol castle:
whipping, and hanging.
So long a-growing and so leisurely,
Or not my father's. For I cannot be
All sects, all ages smack of this vice; and he
Now let him speak: 'tis charity to show.
GLOUCESTER:
Are these your herd?
Her uncle Rivers; yea, and, for her sake,
And this distilled liquor drink thou off;
To paly ashes, thy eyes' windows fall,
More than thou hast, and with it joy thy life;
O, now, let Richmond and Elizabeth,
Go I to fight: truth hath a quiet breast.
By the blood we have shed together, by the vows
The which shall point you forth at every sitting
Finding yourself desired of such a person,
suitors have strong breaths: they shall know we
Than those that have more cunning to be strange.
Until the white rose that I wear be dyed
as I was said to, Away!
Go bear this lance to Thomas, Duke of Norfolk.
In earnest, it's true; I heard a senator speak it.
And they shall feel the vengeance of my wrath.
Made peace enmity, fair love of hate,
So dry he was for sway--wi' the King of Naples
He is; and, see, he brings the mayor along.
Good my liege, I come;
That I myself have done unto myself?
The foul witch Sycorax, who with age and envy
Shall the contents discover, something rare
And have forsworn you with Hortensio.
He might have kept that glory to this day;
renowned brother, in his love toward her ever most
Will't please you walk aside?
you and pray with you.
Give him deserved vexation. Let a guard
Have other some: why, 'tis a happy thing
Stands without blemish. Next, it imports no reason
I will be satisfied; let me see the writing.
ye're so slight. He that hath a will to die by
They do consume the thing that feeds their fury:
Like offices of pity. Sir, be prosperous
now stands, he will avoid your accusation; he made
DUKE VINCENTIO:
executed, and sleep afterwards.
And entertain some score or two of tailors,
QUEEN MARGARET:
Than he appears by speech: this is unwonted
LADY GREY:
In anger, Juno-like. Come, come, come.
Even he, your wife, this lady, and myself,
But O! the devil'--there the villain stopp'd
GLOUCESTER:
And all the devils are here.'
I hope it is some pardon or reprieve
What misadventure is so early up,
Your tongue, though but bastards and syllables
First Citizen:
What, do you grumble? I'll be with you straight.
And swell so much the higher by their ebb.
Thus I conceive by him.
LADY ANNE:
My lords, we were forewarned of your coming,
Or else thou diest to-morrow.
This mutiny were better put in hazard,
I did but tell her she mistook her frets,
Do't not, thou split'st thine own.
As, though on thinking on no thought I think,
I, then in London keeper of the king,
So she does any thing; though I report it,
That could conceive a gross and foolish sire
have not in abundance?
And therefore, since I cannot prove a lover,
And happy always was it for that son
First Keeper:
Made up to the deed, doth push on this proceeding:
Which thou supposest I have done to thee.
QUEEN MARGARET:
I should sin
But for our hearts, he knows no more of mine,
Now let me see if I can construe it: 'Hic ibat
And after me, I know, the rout is coming.
And cannot lose your way.
God's wrong is most of all.
If you would not so,
Both full of truth, I make King Lewis behold
DUKE VINCENTIO:
Fell gently down, as if they struck their friends.
I speak not this as doubting any here
And doves will peck in safeguard of their brood.
The justice of your bearts will thereto add
by your hearing: all the peace you make in their
If I dare eat, or drink, or breathe, or live,
Pour all your tears! I am your sorrow's nurse,
But my true love is grown to such excess
Which didst unworthy slaughter upon others.
Love they to live that love and honour have.
Whom I would save, had a most noble father!
You cram these words into mine ears against
Hath in the tables of his law commanded
No doubt well bring it to a happy issue.
I will about it straight;
Cry 'God save Richard, England's royal king!'
Is goads, thorns, nettles, tails of wasps,
Your eyes drop millstones, when fools' eyes drop tears:
Had not been broken, nor my brother slain:
I yield all this;
What, wilt thou wash him from his grave with tears?
we jest now, think you?
All this is comfort; wherefore weep I then?
As is my grief, or lesser than my name!
Pray God, I say, I prove a needless coward!
And to make us no better thought of, a little help
Thou lovest me not; for, brother, if thou didst,
Fie, fie! unknit that threatening unkind brow,
Hath pawn'd an open hand in sign of love;
Ay, sir, very well.
Piercing our Romans: then, valiant Titus, take
And you shall be conducted.
My Lord, I have consider'd in my mind
Gramercy, fellow: there, drink that for me.
Or seven fair branches springing from one root:
That thou hadst call'd me all these bitter names.
Advertising and holy to your business,
Lord Hastings, you and he are near in love.
Camillo, sir; I spake with him; who now
Wife, love Lord Hastings, let him kiss your hand;
If love be rough with you, be rough with love;
Ere they lack'd power to cross you.
His looks are full of peaceful majesty,
But he, poor soul, by your first order died,
Does your worship mean to geld and splay all the
Things that, to hear them told, have made me tremble;
To blot out me, and put his own son in.
I, thus neglecting worldly ends, all dedicated
To live an unstain'd wife to my sweet love.
Yet read the gamut of Hortensio.
Old John of Gaunt is grievous sick, my lord,
HENRY BOLINGBROKE:
Why should you fall into so deep an O?
Away! for death doth hold us in pursuit.
KING RICHARD III:
When dying clouds contend with growing light,
NORTHUMBERLAND:
Come thou on my side, and entreat for me,
or a hair less, in his beard, than thou hast: thou
HORTENSIO:
With words that made them known. But thy vile race,
But one that scorn to live in this disguise,
And if I die to-morrow, this is hers,
Spoke like a tail fellow that respects his
No, pardon; 'tis a secret must be locked within the
I conjure thee by Rosaline's bright eyes,
they should exhibit their petitions in the street?
in music and mathematics: his name is Cambio; pray,
Sometime the flood prevails, and then the wind;
The close earth wombs or the profound sea hides
Too modest are you;
Padua affords nothing but what is kind.
PETRUCHIO:
Dead to infliction, to themselves are dead;
Whom with a crack'd heart I have sent to Rome,
right-hand file? do you?
Stay, madam; I must speak a word with you.
When he shall miss me,--as, in faith, I mean not
And you but waste your words.
Because that, like a Jack, thou keep'st the stroke
Like man new made.
GLOUCESTER:
The sands are number'd that make up my life;
Even as thou wilt, sweet Warwick, let it be;
I am for thee straight: take thou the
Forced to retire by fury of the wind:
The shady curtains from Aurora's bed,
We'll over-reach the greybeard, Gremio,
Some Juliet, and some Paris; and all run,
The moon of Rome, chaste as the icicle
First, tell me, have you ever been at Pisa?
He hath, my lord.
I mean to stride your steed, and at all times
In every borough as we pass along;
To miseries enough; no hope to help you,
Than is the doting title of a mother;
death: you know the course is common. If any thing
Give me no help in lamentation;
Let them puff all about mine ears, present me
There shall be order for't.
Awake, thou coward majesty! thou sleepest.
Brief sounds determine of my weal or woe.
That she doth give her sorrow so much sway,
Freshly on me: 'tis surely for a name.
In her chamber, making a sermon of continency to her;
Why, love forswore me in my mother's womb:
That I should wish for thee to help me curse
LORD ROSS:
Oh for my husband, for my dear lord Edward!
That envied his receipt; even so most fitly
Of fruitful land, all which shall be her jointure.
Where did you study all this goodly speech?
Her sister Katharina welcomed you withal?
By such despair, I should accuse myself.
That you might well have signified the same
But look thou stay not till the watch be set,
Then his good report should have been my son; I
If he be credulous and trust my tale,
Born in Verona, old Antonio's son:
our absence makes us unthrifty to our knowledge.
I'll wait upon your honour.
And hate the idle pleasures of these days.
Let it not sound a thought upon your tongue
Plain and not honest is too harsh a style.
Prosper you, sweet sir!
Yes, faith, and all his lords; the Duke of Milan
POLIXENES:
Yet of your royal presence I'll adventure
show much like to madness: pray heaven his wisdom be
Thou art a banish'd man, and here art come
CORIOLANUS:
On thee, the troubler of the poor world's peace!
KING EDWARD IV:
I'll not be long behind; though I be old,
Mortal, to cut it off; to cure it, easy.
I know it well. What must I call her?
My spirits, as in a dream, are all bound up.
Whilst others come to make him lose at home:
Condemns you to the death. See them deliver'd over
KING RICHARD III:
confirmed countenance. I saw him run after a gilded
Faith, look you, one cannot tell how to say that:
Would he were here, my lord! for he indeed
speak with him till after dinner.
My sovereign liege, no letters; and few words,
And bid us welcome to your sheep-shearing,
For our access, whose hap shall be to have her
Wears this war's garland: in token of the which,
And yet, amen, if heaven do think him me.
No, Pompey.
He throws without distinction. Give me leave,
GLOUCESTER:
Well, say. Peace, ho!
What a blow was there given!
Will or exceed the common or be caught
Down with him! down with him!
Since I am put to know that your own science
Came on the part of York, press'd by his master;
If not to fight with foreign enemies,
Though far more cause, yet much less spirit to curse
besides the king to effect your suits, here is man
Suppose, my lords, he did it unconstrain'd,
DUCHESS OF YORK:
With Tybalt's slander,--Tybalt, that an hour
awhile with the maid: my mind promises with my
An hour before I came, the duchess died.
GLOUCESTER:
KATHARINA:
Alack, for mercy!
With baleful weeds and precious-juiced flowers.
And place your hands below your husband's foot:
Hereditary ours.
Assist me, Tranio, for I know thou wilt.
To teeming foison, even so her plenteous womb
In gait and countenance surely like a father.
As certain as I know the sun is fire:
Where is the Duke of Norfolk, gentle Warwick?
In token of which duty, if he please,
Who bow'd but in my stirrup, bend like his
Name it, fair cousin.
That bear the shapes of men, how have you run
And fellow'st nothing: then 'tis very credent
Where of the execution did cry out
For one poor grain or two, to leave unburnt,
Accords not with the sadness of my suit:
of our way, I say.
And be in Padua here Vincentio's son,
Both disobedience and ingratitude
As hotly and as nobly with thy love
And rob me of a happy mother's name?
I loved the maid I married; never man
Sole monarch of the universal earth.
You have not been inquired after:
Myself am moved to woo thee for my wife.
I am in health, I breathe, and see thee ill.
Make haste, I say.
And then to crave a league of amity;
LADY GREY:
There doth my father lie; and there, this night,
DUKE OF YORK:
Her wondrous qualities and mild behavior,
All their petitions are as freely theirs
Have not saints lips, and holy palmers too?
As I subscribe not that, nor any other,
BISHOP OF CARLISLE:
extremity of the one, it must needs be.
But yet,--poor Claudio! There is no remedy.
But only hope:
Which often hath no less prevail'd than so
Cannot be mute,--or thought,--for cogitation
When we were chosen tribunes for the people,--
What, is he in his bed?
And in the duke's behalf I'll give my voice,
KATHARINA:
That things ill-got had ever bad success?
Ay, mother; but I would not have it so.
O, true-bred!
Let's march without the noise of threatening drum,
Or let me die, to look on death no more!
he waved indifferently 'twixt doing them neither
Now, for my life, Hortensio fears his widow.
Thou that wast seal'd in thy nativity
But thou preferr'st thy life before thine honour:
Or ere I journey to your father's house.
Or how stolen from the dead.
Gave me my being and my father first,
Didst thou not kill this king?
Tell me, I beseech you, which is the readiest way
Which on my faith deserves high speech, and straight
KING HENRY VI:
He was a kind of nothing, titleless,
Be you content, fair maid;
You show too much of that
And find delight writ there with beauty's pen;
I have fought with thee: so often hast thou beat me,
Our solemn hymns to sullen dirges change,
First Citizen:
Go, you cot-quean, go,
I pray you all, tell me what they deserve
Never, Paulina; so be blest my spirit!
Angelo, came not to an undoubtful proof.
Than at the strangeness of it.
Well, my lord.
Brother, give me thy hand; and, gentle Warwick,
me: for the life to come, I sleep out the thought
KING RICHARD II:
you give me any conserves, give me conserves of
ANTIGONUS:
Will soon recover his accustom'd health.
a cudgel; and yet my mind gave me his clothes made a
Fear, and not love, begets his penitence:
Against the state and profit of this land;
What will you give us?
What good is cover'd with the face of heaven,
He hath no friends but who are friends for fear.
Therefore, to speak, and to avoid the first,
Not of a woman's tenderness to be,
Is a bold spirit in a loyal breast.
Who thinks he knows that he ne'er knew my body,
His reasons with his body.
'Fore me, this fellow speaks! What then? what then?
KING RICHARD III:
Where is the duke? 'tis he should hear me speak.
That many have and others must sit there;
I humbly thank you.
The royal tree hath left us royal fruit,
Come weep with me; past hope, past cure, past help!
Sir, have pity;
Set down, set down your honourable load,
Hark ye, your Romeo will be here at night:
thou art preparing fire for us; look thee, here's
What reverence he did throw away on slaves,
No less! nay, bigger; women grow by men.
BARNARDINE:
In an ungracious mouth is but profane.
Where is the foolish knave I sent before?
Injurious world! most damned Angelo!
To the vulgar eye, that he bears all things fairly.
Than woman's lightness? Having waste ground enough,
Such as befits the pleasure of the court?
Stand like the forfeits in a barber's shop,
Hath he not pass'd the noble and the common?
And his well-chosen bride.
He has a son, who shall be flayed alive; then
Utter your gravity o'er a gossip's bowl;
before to make a fire, and they are coming after to
Since birth, and heaven, and earth, all three do meet
There is differency between a grub and a butterfly;
Find them out whose names are written here! It is
I'll make him glad to seem Vincentio,
My strength can give you: then no more remains,
Romeo's a dishclout to him: an eagle, madam,
ARCHIDAMUS:
With resolution, wheresoe'er I meet thee--
To find out this abuse, whence 'tis derived.
That is, not bestow my youngest daughter
Your fire-new stamp of honour is scarce current.
No matter: get thee gone,
CORIOLANUS:
But, for your son,--believe it, O, believe it,
With some few bands of chosen soldiers,
GLOUCESTER:
Till George be pack'd with post-horse up to heaven.
Is not my teeming date drunk up with time?
and kneel for grace and mercy at my feet;
DUKE VINCENTIO:
PETRUCHIO:
KING RICHARD III:
May that ground gape and swallow me alive,
Every letter he hath writ hath disvouched other.
To feed my innocent people.
I never spake with her, saw her, nor heard from her,
Against what man thou comest, and what thy quarrel:
The commons will not then be satisfied.
And gentle, kind, effeminate remorse,
These unknown friends to's welcome; for it is
Shall for the fault make forfeit of his head.
Tybalt, the reason that I have to love thee
CORIOLANUS:
Whilst we were wandering with the antipodes,
Both our inventions meet and jump in one.
CORIOLANUS:
Not to his father's; I spoke with his man.
DUCHESS OF YORK:
Each in his office ready at thy beck.
Most palates theirs. They choose their magistrate,
PETRUCHIO:
First Senator:
Thou art thyself, though not a Montague.
Come; fear you not: good counsellors lack no
And thou dismember'd with thine own defence.
They're here with me already, whispering, rounding
DUKE OF YORK:
If any be, the trespass of the queen.
And he that slew them fouler than he is:
No remedy.
To part the queen's proud kindred from the king.
Though I show'd sourly to him, once more offer'd
Thou canst not frown, thou canst not look askance,
very pretty boy. O' my troth, I looked upon him o'
Must either punish me, not being believed,
all men's; and for a hand, and a foot, and a body,
me: your name, I think, is Adrian.
Commanded always by the greater gust;
Are you now going to dispatch this deed?
Come, death, and welcome! Juliet wills it so.
The queen hath best success when you are absent.
As to put metal in restrained means
Can lay on nature is a paradise
Why, then the world and all that's in't is nothing;
Now put it, God, in the physician's mind
And time it is, when raging war is done,
3 KING HENRY VI
What else? and that succession be determined.
When care, mistrust, and treason waits on him.
DUKE VINCENTIO:
know this to be true; therefore prepare yourself to
gently considered, I'll bring you where he is
Witnessing storms to come, woe and unrest:
So said, so done, is well.
Who loves another best.
Fortune and victory sit on thy helm!
Our praises are our wages: you may ride's
While we were interchanging thrusts and blows,
Adopts thee heir, and his high sceptre yields
Doth fancy any other but Lucentio?
And every tale condemns me for a villain.
Which craves as desperate an execution.
An hour since: Cleomenes and Dion,
And, in good time, here the lieutenant comes.
Evermore weeping for your cousin's death?
That no particular scandal once can touch
But Henry now shall wear the English crown,
I' the right and strength o' the commons,' be it either
This viperous traitor: to eject him hence
Burn hotter than my faith.
Look he's winding up the watch of his wit;
First, madam, I entreat true peace of you,
With scruples and do set the word itself
Hie you to church; I must another way,
By this at Dunsmore, marching hitherward.
No more, but that you read
Not scurvy, nor a temporary meddler,
Now Phaethon hath tumbled from his car,
O Perdita, what have we twain forgot!
Made me acquainted with a weighty cause
Alack. I love myself. Wherefore? for any good
With all my heart. This fellow I remember,
Therefore, that I may conquer fortune's spite
it is well allied: but it is impossible to extirp
QUEEN MARGARET:
Within this hour bring me word 'tis done,
Away! we'll none on 't: here has been too much
And I confess besides I am no maid:
I know it, uncle, and oppose not myself
This hand hath made him proud with clapping him.
As Paris hath. Beshrew my very heart,
and make but an interior survey of your good selves!
No if thou dost say 'no' to my demand.
Adieu, poor soul, that takest thy leave of it!
Feast with the best, and welcome to my house:
When she does praise me grieves me. I have done
'Tis for the followers fortune widens them,
So soon as you arrive, shall clear that doubt.
hang'd first.
More torches here! Come on then, let's to bed.
Safely in harbour
I am for you again: pray you, sit by us,
Our scouts have found the adventure very easy:
No; if I mistake
I send thee, Warwick, such a messenger
I crave your blessing.
Exceeds, in that, the lists of all advice
Thieves for their robbery have authority
LADY ANNE:
How more unfortunate than all living women
And what thou hast, forget'st. Thou art not certain;
Rome and her rats are at the point of battle;
Ay, in despite of all that shall withstand you.
I bade the rascal knock upon your gate
Such proclamation hath been made, my liege.
Thinking his prattle to be tedious;
And each one to his office when he wakes.
Ariel and all his quality.
I'll not to bed to-night; let me alone;
So call it: but it does fulfil my vow;
Are then most humble; I have no ambition
In peril to incur your former malady,
A shepherd's daughter,
Hold, valiant Clifford! for a thousand causes
look upon his school-master.
And for his dreams, I wonder he is so fond
Then, worthy Marcius,
Hence with it, and together with the dam
BRAKENBURY:
No, wrangling woman, we'll no longer stay:
And brought from thence the Thracian fatal steeds,
That's a good deed. If thou mayest discern by that
CORIOLANUS:
Death, desolation, ruin and decay:
Nay, but hear me.
To bear her burthen, whether I will or no,
As much in mock as mark.
Good heart, and, i' faith, I will tell her as much:
How far brought you high Hereford on his way?
Pray you, be gone.
Good uncle, help to order several powers
As little skill to fear as I have purpose
How often have I told you 'twould be thus!
Lie in the interpretation of the time:
Lord Stafford's father, Duke of Buckingham,
How probable I do not know--that Marcius,
This way, my lord; for this way lies the game.
The weeds which his broad-spreading leaves did shelter,
Lay't so to his charge:
So could I, faith, boy, to have the next wish after,
With eager feeding food doth choke the feeder:
We speak no treason, man: we say the king
obstacles: it made me once restore a purse of gold
But at this instant he is sick my lord,
I must uneasy make, lest too light winning
Go, Bushy, to the Earl of Wiltshire straight:
I think the duke will not be spoke withal.
Said he not so? or did I dream it so?
What good is this to England and himself!
Give me those flowers. Do as I bid thee, go.
If, by the tribunes' leave, and yours, good people,
Ah, word ill urged to one that is so ill!
The keys of all the posterns: please your highness
Bury with those that wore them, these base slaves,
door, you would never dance again after a tabour and
Come to thy heart as that within my breast!
To bar my master's heirs in true descent,
Here to make good the boisterous late appeal,
HENRY BOLINGBROKE:
I would esteem him worth a dozen such.
Well, you'll answer this one day. Fare ye well.
No, God forbid that I should wish them sever'd
afternoon as she went to the garden for parsley to
Well, he is gone; and with him go these thoughts.
By that and all the rites of knighthood else,
The grey-eyed morn smiles on the frowning night,
Or as thy father and his father did,
Of every wind that blows.
With their refusal, both observe and answer
CORIOLANUS:
Beneath abhorring. What would you have, you curs,
KING HENRY VI:
CORIOLANUS:
But thou with mildness entertain'st thy wooers,
Is leaning cheek to cheek? is meeting noses?
O, speak again, bright angel! for thou art
KING HENRY VI:
PETRUCHIO:
For they account his head upon the bridge.
What lay before them.
Our holy lives must win a new world's crown,
FRIAR LAURENCE:
A hundred thousand welcomes. I could weep
Be held by you denials. Do not bid me
The blood is hot that must be cool'd for this:
And this word 'love,' which graybeards call divine,
GLOUCESTER:
But, hark, what noise?
Varlet, thou liest; thou liest, wicked varlet! the
Take Hereford's rights away, and take from Time
No, my lord.
Besides, this place is famous for the creatures
But, stay: what news? Why comest thou in such post?
KATHARINA:
But first I'll do my errand. The good queen,
As mine is to him?
I speak no more than every one doth know.
And see our pleasure herein executed.
Turning his face to the dew-dropping south.
Come between us, good Benvolio; my wits faint.
As merry as when our nuptial day was done,
sent to the deputy.
Most holy sir, I thank you.
In fair Bohemia, and remember well,
And thus still doing, thus he pass'd along.
Oh, poor Clarence!
In the preferment of the eldest sister.
You are gentlemen of brave metal; you would lift
Marry, sir, 'tis an ill cook that cannot lick his
Perchance are to this business purblind? say.
Evermore thanks, the exchequer of the poor;
He consul!
PETRUCHIO:
your voices,
I would have been a-bed an hour ago.
O, no! alas, I rather hate myself
Richmond, in Yorkshire, sent out a boat
Twice for one step I'll groan, the way being short,
That Lewis of France is sending over masquers
DUKE OF AUMERLE:
Whose wisdom was a mirror to the wisest;
To cease this civil war, and, whilst I live,
The sweet'st, dear'st creature's dead,
For this one speech Lord Hastings well deserves
Might in the times to come have ta'en revenge,
hath tamed my old master and my new mistress and
Be ruled by him.
Messenger:
My brother Gloucester, plain well-meaning soul,
Up to some scaffold, there to lose their heads?
For in the marches here we heard you were,
The government I cast upon my brother
Therefore, we banish you our territories:
With all the rest of that consorted crew,
A man well known throughout all Italy.
Our whole city is much bound to him.
Should nothing privilege him, nor partialize
will thaw.
3 KING HENRY VI
And that so lamely and unfashionable
But, leaving this, what is your grace's pleasure?
He sends ye not to murder me for this
And three examples of the like have been
But, like dumb statues or breathing stones,
Till our King Henry had shook hands with death.
He's banish'd, and it shall be so.
Leave unsaluted: sink, my knee, i' the earth;
The strangeness of your story put
thee, I bid thy master cut out the gown; but I did
Nay, he is dead; and slain by Edward's hand.
Third Servingman:
And here, to pledge my vow, I give my hand.
PETRUCHIO:
As he hath followed you, with all despite;
What is't? a spirit?
I cry thee mercy then, for I had thought
lay aside the thoughts of Sicilia.
Madam wife, they say that I have dream'd
Who I do think is mine and love as mine,
Shall we desire to raze the sanctuary
Let me stand here till thou remember it.
3 KING HENRY VI
He has his health and ampler strength indeed
Yet from my dugs he drew not this deceit.
take the wall of any man or maid of Montague's.
PETRUCHIO:
For in this sin he is as deep as I.
Hold up your hands, say nothing; I'll speak all.
I'll buy him of you.
And balms applied to, you, yet dare I never
To hold thine own and leave thine own with him.
Do then: but I'll not hear.
That would not bless our Europe with your daughter,
His name is Licio, born in Mantua.
The citizens are mum and speak not a word.
High be our thoughts: I know my uncle York
Drawn tuns of blood out of thy country's breast,
GLOUCESTER:
Tarquin seven hurts i' the body.
DUKE OF YORK:
with a whoo-bub against his daughter and the king's
Supply me with the habit and instruct me
Well, well see't. Come, madam wife, sit by my side
Dear brother, how shall Bona be revenged
To see her in your arms.
And make him of like spirit to himself.
To undercrest your good addition
I am so sorry for my trespass made
Which on thy royal party granted once,
You had a bastard by Polixenes,
Second Messenger:
PETRUCHIO:
And four shall quickly draw out my command,
Applaud the name of Henry with your leader.
As all the world--why, he's a man of wax.
And graceless traitor to her loving lord?
And give it way: I know thou canst not choose.
Hap what hap may, I'll roundly go about her:
Hours, minutes? noon, midnight? and all eyes
I would, that I might thank you as you call me.
Which ever since hath kept my eyes from rest;
Speak, good Sicinius.
The bug which you would fright me with I seek.
In corporal sufferance finds a pang as great
Honour and policy, like unsever'd friends,
QUEEN MARGARET:
With character too gross is writ on Juliet.
And executing the outward face of royalty,
And from your sacred vials pour your graces
All thin and naked, to the numb cold night?
What peace you'll make, advise me: for my part,
Ah, so much interest have I in thy sorrow
O unbid spite! is sportful Edward come?
HORTENSIO:
been the finder out of this secret, it would not
BARNARDINE:
And with that odds he weighs King Richard down.
O my dear kinsman! Prince, as thou art true,
SIR STEPHEN SCROOP:
When I do see the very book indeed
A thing most brutish, I endow'd thy purposes
Will you speak well of him that kill'd your cousin?
and a heaven to throne in.
bed, and warm thee.
Ratcliff, my lord; 'tis I. The early village-cock
Tunis was never graced before with such a paragon to
Now, good sweet nurse,--O Lord, why look'st thou sad?
You have made fair work, I fear me.--Pray, your news?--
And for his meed, poor lord, he is mew'd up.
To be to thee this night a torch-bearer,
A savour that may strike the dullest nostril
So we, well cover'd with the night's black mantle,
Told the sad story of my father's death,
He proved best man i' the field, and for his meed
his use was to put a ducat in her clack-dish: the
He said he had wounds, which he could show
Wash they his wounds with tears: mine shall be spent,
GLOUCESTER:
Believe me, sister, of all the men alive
Of celebration of that nuptial which
Lest leaden slumber peise me down to-morrow,
QUEEN MARGARET:
For thou must now know farther.
And now falls on her bed; and then starts up,
I never did her any, to my knowledge.
O, kill me too!
Is my kinsman, whom the king hath wrong'd,
And that you not delay the present, but,
In God's name and the king's, say who thou art
And give't me in mine ear.
Half all Cominius' honours are to Marcius.
CORIOLANUS:
continency; sparrows must not build in his
Heaven let me bear it! you granting of my suit,
My husband lost his life to get the crown;
'Tis right.
You that have been so tenderly officious
Than a perpetual honour. Darest thou die?
DUKE VINCENTIO:
Youngling, thou canst not love so dear as I.
Whom God hath join'd together; ay, and 'twere pity
For raging wind blows up incessant showers,
Sir Walter Herbert, a renowned soldier;
And neither by treason nor hostility
And handed love as you do, I was wont
Why rail'st thou on thy birth, the heaven, and earth?
We bodged again; as I have seen a swan
By all the battles wherein we have fought,
This letter, then, to Friar Peter give;
Off with the crown, and with the crown his head;
Of whom thy father, Prince of Wales, was first:
Yet to beat down these rebels here at home.
Second Servingman:
For their advantage and your highness' loss.
Why, courage then! what cannot be avoided
What news, friar, of the duke?
HORTENSIO:
Two may keep counsel, putting one away?
In countenance somewhat doth resemble you.
Come, we'll inform them
First Gentleman:
The silence often of pure innocence
One flourishing branch of his most royal root,
But what o' that? Go, you that banish'd him;
Sir John and Sir Hugh Mortimer, mine uncles,
GLOUCESTER:
We shall be charged again. Whiles we have struck,
O, then, dear saint, let lips do what hands do;
I cry you mercy: I mean the lord protector.
'Be serviceable to my son,' quoth he,
The one I have almost forgot,--your pardon,--
And slaughter'd those that were the means to help him;
And not in me: I am myself alone.
If I would yield him my virginity,
gentleman of the greatest promise that ever came
KING EDWARD IV:
FRIAR JOHN:
What's this? a sleeve? 'tis like a demi-cannon:
So that my speed to Mantua there was stay'd.
What said the wench when he rose again?
MISTRESS OVERDONE:
Chaplain, away! thy priesthood saves thy life.
Ay, the woman's maid of the house.
Ay, mistress bride, hath that awaken'd you?
To save the Romans, thereby to destroy
Apothecary:
KING LEWIS XI:
Stand by, a looker on.
Standing before the sun of Bolingbroke,
The partner of your bed. Methinks I see
My uncle Rivers talk'd how I did grow
Which so long sunder'd friends should dwell upon:
To insinuate, flatter, bow, and bend my limbs:
DUKE VINCENTIO:
please his mother and to be partly proud; which he
But had he died in the business, madam; how then?
You know the lady; she is fast my wife,
Can I do this, and cannot get a crown?
You common cry of curs! whose breath I hate
I am Christophero Sly; call not me 'honour' nor
She will indite him to some supper.
Like Romans, neither foolish in our stands,
Thou sheer, immaculate and silver fountain,
Acquaint her here of my son Paris' love;
Earth gapes, hell burns, fiends roar, saints pray.
That, rubbing the poor itch of your opinion,
Remember since you owed no more to time
court-cupboard, look to the plate. Good thou, save
What is your will, sir, that you send for me?
DUCHESS OF YORK:
Now, fellow,
I holp to frame thee. Do you know this lady?
Before you punish him, where he heard this,
KING RICHARD II:
Is Rosaline, whom thou didst love so dear,
ARCHIDAMUS:
DUKE VINCENTIO:
If you be king, why should not I succeed?
at home for you.
Scaling his present bearing with his past,
Honest goodfellows, ah, put up, put up;
GLOUCESTER:
KING HENRY VI:
QUEEN ELIZABETH:
Poor painted queen, vain flourish of my fortune!
But that thy face is, vizard-like, unchanging,
DUKE OF AUMERLE:
To me she's married, not unto my clothes:
I pray you, husband, be not so disquiet:
But, mighty lord, this merry inclination
answer: thither with all greediness of affection
And then betwixt me and my married wife.
Under whose colours he had fought so long.
And so he thinks, and is no less apparent
And happily I have arrived at the last
Wedges of gold, great anchors, heaps of pearl,
And, on my lie, hath stol'n him home to bed.
But keep our course, though the rough wind say no,
What is this? sport?
One word more; I charge thee
Go, tell the prince: run to the Capulets:
Which was your shame, by this unholy braggart,
Two of the fairest stars in all the heaven,
Thy fault our law calls death; but the kind prince,
With many more confederates, are in arms.
His own impatience
From the still-vex'd Bermoothes, there she's hid:
What, is there a maid with child by him?
DUKE OF AUMERLE:
O God!--O nurse, how shall this be prevented?
Let's want no discipline, make no delay,
She sings as sweetly as a nightingale:
KATHARINA:
That e'er the sun shone bright on.
Saddle my horse.
Till she had laid it and conjured it down;
Condemn the fault and not the actor of it?
This boy, that cannot tell what he would have
not by favour. Our king, being ready to leap out of
You are well met, sir. You denied to fight with me
You know neither me, yourselves nor any thing. You
Well, sir, as you guess, as you guess?
My life may last to answer.
He doth appear.
God bless your grace with health and happy days!
What is it?
counsellor; if you can command these elements to
And for the love he beareth to your daughter
Rich garments, linens, stuffs and necessaries,
Smile heaven upon this fair conjunction,
And in his full and ripen'd years himself,
Away with the dotard! to the gaol with him!
No foot shall stir.
BUCKINGHAM:
Make me, that nothing have, with nothing grieved,
Then, dear my liege, mine honour let me try;
Where are my slippers? Shall I have some water?
him, though removed fifty times, shall all come
DUKE VINCENTIO:
It may not be.
Betwixt the Duke of Gloucester and your brothers,
If power change purpose, what our seemers be.
Or shall we beat the stones about thine ears?
mortality, and desperately mortal.
In Oxfordshire shalt muster up thy friends.
Under love's heavy burden do I sink.
My wife is nothing; nor nothing have these nothings,
And, as it were far off sound thou Lord Hastings,
Will but amount to five and twenty thousand,
From London by the king was I press'd forth;
'Tis a very excellent piece of work, madam lady:
Seduced the pitch and height of all his thoughts
Nay, that's a mock: I have seen a lady's nose
BISHOP OF CARLISLE:
And what shall become of those in the city?
The excuse that thou dost make in this delay
queen's picture. Come, follow us: we'll be thy
If it Please your honour, I am the poor duke's
The other his pale cheeks, methinks, presenteth:
Speak not you for him; he's a traitor. Come;
DUCHESS OF YORK:
He lent me counsel and I lent him eyes.
Would be her lord? or shall I say, her uncle?
Why, then is my pump well flowered.
Or, if thou wilt not, be but sworn my love,
By any in this presence, I desire
Or like a cunning instrument cased up,
Cry mercy, lords and watchful gentlemen,
Whose envious gulf did swallow up his life.
What is she but a foul contending rebel
And for that name which is no part of thee
From those you sent to the oracle are come
Come, Kate, and wash, and welcome heartily.
One word, good citizens.
Whose state and honour I for aye allow.
KING EDWARD IV:
and, having flown over many knavish professions, he
gentle: and since the wisdom of their choice is
Prosperity be thy page!
Go to kennel, Pompey; go.
Why, I am glad on't; this is well: stand up:
One of our order, to associate me,
Into some covert: take your sweetheart's hat
Such neighbour nearness to our sacred blood
KING RICHARD II:
Mount you, my lord; towards Berwick post amain:
Commend me to thy brother, Edmund York.
Madam, the guests are come, supper served up, you
encounter Tybalt?
Left I his title out.
Why do you look on us, and shake your head,
Upon his visage, and that all the walls
A great suspicion: stay the friar too.
Third Conspirator:
So shall I no whit be behind in duty
Till you have heard me in my true complaint
You have a father able to maintain you;
One that hath ever been God's enemy:
is a nobleman in town, one Paris, that would fain
Farewell, faint-hearted and degenerate king,
She would be as swift in motion as a ball;
Ay, but yet
A right good mark-man! And she's fair I love.
sentenced him. To make you understand this in a
solemnity, her brother Frederick was wrecked at sea,
The fraughting souls within her.
Most mighty sovereign,
And leave the burthen of it all on thee.
Should rift to hear me; and the words that follow'd
York cannot speak, unless he wear a crown.
I have forgot why I did call thee back.
Why, a horse.
Consisting equally of horse and foot;
How that the guilty kindred of the queen
The deserts of Bohemia?
Is it your will Claudio shall die tomorrow?
KING RICHARD III:
Madam, he hath not slept tonight; commanded
KING RICHARD III:
Nay, he's a flower; in faith, a very flower.
Good aunt, stand up.
Well; what has he done?
Thy beauty hath made me effeminate
If he were seated as King Edward is.
Where I arrive, and my approach be shunn'd,
sometimes to see 'em, and not to see 'em; now the
And I, to keep all this.
To see the statue of our queen: your gallery
But now, my lord, what say you to my suit?
O, pardon me for bringing these ill news,
I hope all's for the best.
'Tis very grievous to be thought upon.
'Tis well borne up.
She will beshrew me much that Romeo
Howe'er the business goes, you have made fault
Whereof I know she is not ignorant:
open't. So, let's see: it was told me I should be
May not one speak?
Second Lady:
Buy lads, or else your lasses cry: Come buy.
CORIOLANUS:
Hath yielded up his body to the grave;
Cousin of Exeter, frowns, words and threats
Your affairs there, what, with whom, the condition
your knees and make ready.
encounter such ridiculous subjects as you are. When
Oxford, redoubted Pembroke, Sir James Blunt,
To hear her prayers for them, as now for us
The very life seems warm upon her lip.
Makes my flesh tremble in their different greeting.
There was a man--
That you do speak to the people.
The sessions shall proceed: this is mere falsehood.
About his neck, Bohemia: who, if I
And give them leave to fly that will not stay;
If she and I be pleased, what's that to you?
which cannot choose but branch now. Since their
Though this island seem to be desert,--
He did, my gracious lord, begin that place;
Yield stinging nettles to mine enemies;
Second Citizen:
Second Soldier:
That you shall all repent the loss of mine:
I am now going to resolve him: I had rather my
Sir, you seem a sober ancient gentleman by your
They seek revenge and therefore will not yield.
who are of such sensible and nimble lungs that
KING RICHARD III:
Yields us kind answer.
QUEEN ELIZABETH:
If my heart's dear love--
I think so. Kill'd!
stockings, and every officer his wedding-garment on?
There's magic in thy majesty, which has
And mean to make her queen of England.
Thoughts tending to ambition, they do plot
That would I learn of you,
What may befall him, to his harm and ours:
It cannot be avoided but by this;
And let me be a slave, to achieve that maid
Till holy church incorporate two in one.
And the true blood which peepeth fairly through't,
Neither, fair saint, if either thee dislike.
Where left we last?
Hark, Perdita
My lord, wise men ne'er sit and wail their woes,
Nor here provincial. My business in this state
O any thing, of nothing first create!
Petruchio, since we are stepp'd thus far in,
The unstooping firmness of my upright soul:
We talk here in the public haunt of men:
Past and to come, that you do change this purpose,
Were I but now the lord of such hot youth
We know't, we know't.
Cominius, Marcius your old enemy,
Some hangman must put on my shroud and lay me
GLOUCESTER:
DUKE VINCENTIO:
We stood to't in good time.
these robes are not gentlemen born: give me the
If not, our swords shall plead it in the field.
You have fought together.
That scarce, some two days since, were worth a noble.
Call them forth.
Admit no other way to save his life,--
Thou hadst not lived to kill a son of mine.
To revel in the entrails of my lambs.
Thou earth, thou! speak.
What's worse than murderer, that I may name it?
Mistress, how mean you that?
How is it with our general?
Of civil wounds plough'd up with neighbours' sword;
Against the rectorship of judgment?
You cannot tent yourself: be gone, beseech you.
Being pent from liberty, as I am now,
Are enter'd in the Roman territories,
His venom tooth will rankle to the death:
The sister to my wife, this gentlewoman,
As I remember, Henry the Sixth
Which, by the heavens' assistance and your strength,
Forthlight the tilter, and brave Master Shooty the
Than with that hand that cut thy youth in twain
What holier than, for royalty's repair,
NORTHUMBERLAND:
For I come hither arm'd against myself:
By her high forehead and her scarlet lip,
My name is call'd Vincentio; my dwelling Pisa;
Left his to the worthiest; so his successor
O, find him! give this ring to my true knight,
Camillo for the minister to poison
So hated, and so banish'd: but he has a merit,
Here, if it like your honour.
Of stuff'd sufficiency: now from the oracle
The mortal gate of the city, which he painted
KATHARINA:
While I with self-same kindness welcome thine.
HENRY BOLINGBROKE:
They that stabb'd Caesar shed no blood at all,
In all this presence that hath moved me so.
But sound the trumpets, and about our task.
Being a bark to brook no mighty sea,
a three-piled piece, I warrant thee: I had as lief
Hath he so long held out with me untired,
Show me a mistress that is passing fair,
Who 'scapes the lurking serpent's mortal sting?
That would depopulate the city and
Was it not so?
And seized upon their towns and provinces.
I'll lean upon one crutch and fight with t'other,
Between the child and parent.
He cried to me; I saw him prisoner;
Of mortal breathing: seize it, if thou darest.
discords: here's my fiddlestick; here's that shall
Which once untangled, much misfortune bodes:
Right, you say true: as Hereford's love, so his;
Let me for this my life-time reign as king.
By wicked powers.
O, well-a-day, that ever I was born!
And he would love me dearly as his child.
faces? Is there not milking-time, when you are
Lord Angelo is severe.
The fresh green lap of fair King Richard's land,
teeth and the lips: but this I can let you
we are come off
Away betimes, before his forces join,
I like your silence, it the more shows off
A bloody tyrant and a homicide;
LADY ANNE:
Third Gentleman:
Ay, if the fool could find it where it lies,
That waits upon your grace?
bots, swayed in the back and shoulder-shotten;
Shall feel this day as sharp to them as thorn.
Reprieve thee from thy fate, it should proceed:
LORD FITZWATER:
Nor I nor any man that but man is
Quarrel sir! no, sir.
I will not hence, till, with my talk and tears,
God knows I will not do it, to the death.
Whilst, with no softer cushion than the flint,
Shall I seem crest-fall'n in my father's sight?
KING RICHARD III:
Unto the frowning judge? or who pronounced
So when this thief, this traitor, Bolingbroke,
Will't not off?
That I have had of thee!
DUKE VINCENTIO:
They shall not live within this world, I swear,
Were he my brother, nay, my kingdom's heir,
Rest thy unrest on England's lawful earth,
One jot of ceremony.
Richmond is on the seas.
Our corn's to reap, for yet our tithe's to sow.
Why, thou unreverend and unhallow'd friar,
Of an one pain, save for a night of groans
of nobleness which nature shows above her breeding,
He is not guilty of her coming hither.
Thus, what with the war, what with the sweat, what
Your friends, sir; the hangman. You must be so
Who's that, I pray thee?
What danger or what sorrow can befall thee,
Ambitious York doth level at thy crown,
Never to lie and take his natural rest
A good demand.
Since this same wayward girl is so reclaim'd.
And over-shine the earth as this the world.
Pray you now, buy it.
A place whereto you'll go?
Either betray'd by falsehood of his guard
KING LEWIS XI:
Poor soul, thy face is much abused with tears.
LORD ROSS:
PRINCE EDWARD:
THOMAS MOWBRAY:
They will, then, ere't be long.
But whither shall we then?
leisure have discredited to him, and now is he
down before their city Corioli; they nothing doubt
The cable broke, the holding-anchor lost,
Is that she is intolerable curst
May think anon it moves.
Part of your cares you give me with your crown.
Is hack'd down, and his summer leaves all faded,
DUKE OF YORK:
such a case as mine a man may strain courtesy.
You know there wants no junkets at the feast.
KING EDWARD IV:
That Henry's death, my lovely Edward's death,
Would not this ill do well? Well, well, I see
His help to crave, and my dear hap to tell.
Suffer't, and live with such as cannot rule
Hark! our drums
Not according to the prayer of the people, for they
Farewell: thou canst not teach me to forget.
And there she shall at Friar Laurence' cell
The bloody parliament shall this be call'd,
To show the world I am a gentleman.
I fear, for ever: Milan and Naples have
Why, then comes in the sweet o' the year;
And all too soon, I fear, the king shall rue.
against me,
My love, forbear to fawn upon their frowns:
Some one take order Buckingham be brought
O, ay, what else?
He's all my exercise, my mirth, my matter,
'Sicinius!' 'Brutus!' 'Coriolanus!' 'Citizens!'
I dare not, sir
Show'd thy dear mother any courtesy,
Dost thou love hawking? thou hast hawks will soar
CORIOLANUS:
As thou hast shown it flinty by thy deeds,
And the compact is firm and true in me.
It seem'd, appear'd to Rome. By the discovery.
With such deep contempt made I him king for this?
When I have deck'd the sea with drops full salt,
If I do lose thee, I do lose a thing
That starts i' the way before thee.
Complotted and contrived in this land
I will not rise, unless your highness grant.
Second Gentleman:
And she, there dead, that Romeo's faithful wife:
from his judge, but most willingly humbles himself
But when goes this forward?
Which waits upon worn times hath something seized
Letters to Richmond, you shall answer it.
And startled, when he look'd upon the Tower,
Let mine own judgment pattern out my death,
And she shall scant show well that now shows best.
If that be jest, then all the rest was so.
That it was yours. Now, for conspiracy,
I go, my lord.
be his dole! He that runs fastest gets the ring.
Which easily endures not article
using painting, do prove my occupation a mystery:
How now, Grumio!
Would think upon you for your voices and
Must it be great, and as his person's mighty,
Ah ha, my mistresses! which of you all
May hourly trample on their sovereign's head;
Since foes have scope to beat both thee and me.
My life stands in the level of your dreams,
Me shall you find ready and willing
I am sorry that such sorrow I procure:
Am I but three inches? why, thy horn is a foot; and
What means Sicilia?
QUEEN MARGARET:
How shall that faith return again to earth,
What would you have, friend? whence are you?
I must believe you, sir:
DUCHESS OF YORK:
And by good testimony, or I'll seize thy life,
She is not hot, but temperate as the morn;
Your care is gain of care, by new care won:
To this same place, to this same monument.
Nay, hear you, Kate: in sooth you scape not so.
Should leave the helm and like a fearful lad
Then meet and join. Jove's lightnings, the precursors
which is left of him what he is, fetch me to the
Afore me! it is so very very late,
Not poison any further.
Takes note of what is done; and, like a prophet,
Thou desperate pilot, now at once run on
In thy best robes uncover'd on the bier
Here to this place, i' the open air, before
My gracious lord, I tender you my service,
Which, well thou know'st, is cross, and full of sin.
Lay by all nicety and prolixious blushes,
And what he will, I humbly yield unto.
Marcius, I had rather had eleven die nobly for their
To meet anon, upon your approbation.
First Senator:
God send you joy, Petruchio! 'tis a match.
The more I have, for both are infinite.
wonder how thou darest venture to be drunk, not
Your enemies, with nodding of their plumes,
Unto the kingdom of perpetual night.
KING HENRY VI:
By this account then Margaret may win him;
And show more sign of her obedience,
Esteem as foil wherein thou art to set
Has made thee swell thus.
And fit his mind to death, for his soul's rest.
Ere I will see the crown so foul misplaced.
Once more we sit in England's royal throne,
To have my praise for this, perform a part
Do you hear?
O tiger's heart wrapt in a woman's hide!
Her mother is the lady of the house,
To horse, to horse! urge doubts to them that fear.
I tell thee, I, that thou hast marr'd her gown.
Say as he says, or we shall never go.
Whilst thou liest warm at home, secure and safe;
Should be past grief: do not receive affliction
Second Murderer:
Had I not reason, think ye, to make haste,
If thou art taken: hence, be gone, away!
further than I meant, to pluck all fears out of you.
Farewell, ancient lady; farewell,
Did they not sometime cry, 'all hail!' to me?
I say unto you, what he hath done famously, he did
And the desire of the nobles.
A heart of wreak in thee, that wilt revenge
shrift and advise him for a better place. Yet you
Yet, gracious madam, bear it as you may:
The Emperor of Russia was my father:
Be merry, Kate. Some water, here; what, ho!
But thankful even for hate, that is meant love.
And made no deeper wounds? O flattering glass,
and make him good friend to the people!
My husband and my lord, my lord and husband;
As lively painted as the deed was done.
Make haste; the bridegroom he is come already:
the dearer by I know how much an ounce.
From worthy Edward, King of Albion,
So please your lordship to accept our duty.
All the contagion of the south light on you,
The Lord protect him from that kingly title!
POLIXENES:
And drop into the rotten mouth of death.
The mother to a hopeful prince, here standing
sought for, in the great chamber.
Not Isabel?
Such hope have all the line of John of Gaunt!
won honour than in the embracements of his bed where
That I'll try.
Those men you talk of came into my mind.
No, none, but only a repair i' the dark;
motion generative; that's infallible.
The news, Rogero?
And help the joy.
I know't too well.
I thought no less: it is his policy
For one to thrust his hand between his teeth,
O then, belike, you fancy riches more:
The price is to ask it kindly.
Has said enough.
Go fetch them hither: if they deny to come.
Stay not to question, for the watch is coming;
GLOUCESTER:
Rage must be withstood:
What would your grace have done unto him now?
CORIOLANUS:
And treacherously hast thou vanquish'd him,
Good morrow, Catesby; you are early stirring
DUKE VINCENTIO:
The precious treasure of his eyesight lost:
Not Afric owns a serpent I abhor
This shall determine that.
First Lord:
PETRUCHIO:
KING RICHARD III:
Most willingly;
First Murderer:
There were none fine but Adam, Ralph, and Gregory;
What, marry, may she! marry with a king,
Now one the better, then another best;
Receive thy lance; and God defend the right!
Be she as foul as was Florentius' love,
'Tis to be doubted he would waken him.
SEBASTIAN:
Is nothing kin to foul redemption.
How now! canst stand?
you have found him than he was when you sought him:
As bring me to the sight of Isabella,
What says your highness to my just demand?
Wrong not her birth, she is of royal blood.
The fruits of love I mean, my loving liege.
Who can be patient in such extremes?
Say no more:
on mine honour; and so, I pray, go with us.
KING RICHARD II:
Have no delight to pass away the time,
For which my sinews shall be stretch'd upon him.
If therefore you dare trust my honesty,
Third Citizen:
since the death of Hermione, visited that removed
Before I have shook off the regal thoughts
Go, fellow, go, return unto thy lord;
VINCENTIO:
Which may, if fortune please, both breed thee, pretty,
To-day, to-day, unhappy day, too late,
He for his father's sake so loves the prince,
To brag unto them, thus I did, and thus;
'What my great-grandfather and his grandsire got
A man of stricture and firm abstinence,
Amen, amen. God save thee, noble consul!
Whatever fortune stays him from his word:
Fie, you confine yourself most unreasonably: come,
First Senator:
The senators and patricians love him too:
Pray you, a word.
Shalt feel our justice, in whose easiest passage
Nay, but my letters, by this means being there
That my remembrance warrants. Had I not
Or I my life.
First Citizen:
Upon entreaty have a present aims;
Obey and be attentive. Canst thou remember
How now, sir! What's your name? and what's the matter?
VINCENTIO:
And set up Lancaster. Why, trow'st thou, Warwick,
Right true it is, your son Lucentio here
Of Marcius?
And his ill-boding tongue no more shall speak.
often give us soldiers the lie: but we pay them for
QUEEN MARGARET:
KING LEWIS XI:
Calmly, I do beseech you.
My leash unwillingly.
With fury from his native residence.
ninescore and seventeen pounds; of which he made
To see the life as lively mock'd as ever
As friendship wears at feasts, keep with Bohemia
Well, here he comes.
access to thee.
The more that Henry was unfortunate.
Prove as successful to the queen,--O be't so!--
Whensoever he's convented. First, for this woman.
Saying, he'll lade it dry to have his way:
First Servant:
Which I'll lay down.
O, a cherubim
Doth she not think me an old murderer,
Procure me music ready when he wakes,
And from this testimony of your own sex,--
Well, your imprisonment shall not be long;
If I did take the kingdom from your sons,
called me brother; and then the two kings called my
customers. First, here's young Master Rash; he's in
Hath she forgot already that brave prince,
can lick their fingers.
How dares thy harsh rude tongue sound this unpleasing news?
big enough; if it be too big for your thief, your
And madly play with my forefather's joints?
I prithee go and get me some repast;
DUKE OF AUMERLE:
Nay, I'll not warrant that; for I can speak
Than thou hast to deny 't. Come, let us go:
Tranio is changed into Lucentio.
No humble suitors press to speak for right,
Now, brother of Clarence, how like you our choice,
To see, now, how a jest shall come about!
with life that I will sue to be rid of it.
Nay, then she must needs come.
Too noble for this place.
By this alliance to make void my suit:
First Watchman:
With this my son, Prince Edward, Henry's heir,
That she shall have; besides an argosy
Though full of our displeasure, yet we free thee
Might come to me again. Who's there?
But then more 'why?' why have they dared to march
What news abroad?
For we are peremptory to dispatch
Soon sleep in quiet. O, how my heart abhors
But lately splinter'd, knit, and join'd together,
My soul flies through these wounds to seek out Thee.
The last leave of thee takes my weeping eye.
'Twas sin before, but now 'tis charity.
My father's death--
Third Gentleman:
And damnable ingrateful: nor was't much,
That know the strong'st and surest way to get.
And I,--like one lost in a thorny wood,
GLOUCESTER:
Even then that sunshine brew'd a shower for him,
Learn how 'tis held; and what they are that must
I'll to him; he is hid at Laurence' cell.
Deny thy father and refuse thy name;
Then he disdains to shine; for by the book
Pray now, no more: my mother,
And we create, in absence of ourself,
Then, Clifford, were thy heart as hard as steel,
His captain, steward, deputy-elect,
Sixth Citizen:
Much comfort in't; says 'My poor prisoner,
Inclining to them both: were my wife's liver
QUEEN MARGARET:
And tapers burn'd to bedward!
I would I were as sure of a good dinner.
And in that shame still live my sorrow's rage.
If any in Vienna be of worth
With violent hefts. I have drunk,
Peace, sirrah!
Provided that my banishment repeal'd
Yes, madam: yet I cannot choose but laugh,
All hail, great master! grave sir, hail! I come
Even in the downfall of his mellow'd years,
To avoid the carping censures of the world.
I wasted time, and now doth time waste me;
GLOUCESTER:
KATHARINA:
Apparent to my heart.
I'll see your grace: till then I'll follow her.
This do and do it kindly, gentle sirs:
Call me but love, and I'll be new baptized;
To your remembrances: but you have found,
How if it come to thee again?
I guess not.
O, God ye god-den.
A madman's mercy bade thee run away.
My work hath yet not warm'd me: fare you well:
I then crave pardon of your majesty.
No ceremony that to great ones 'longs,
against it with my life.
The impression of keen whips I'ld wear as rubies,
My liege, it is young Henry, earl of Richmond.
BUCKINGHAM:
'Tis well that thou hast cause
Thou dost make possible things not so held,
By its own visage: if I then deny it,
Well, on to the market-place.
Rescued the Black Prince, that young Mars of men,
And so did I.
And take his thanks that yet hath nothing else.
And let them work. The nature of our people,
DUCHESS OF YORK:
From Florence and must here deliver them.
Which with her dowry shall be counterpoised.
Why, lo you now, I have spoke to the purpose twice:
Now civil wounds are stopp'd, peace lives again:
Let it command a mirror hither straight,
Ay, and for much more slaughter after this.
HENRY BOLINGBROKE:
Say, then, my peace is made.
Marry, God forbid his grace should say us nay!
their queen.
Both have I spill'd; O would the deed were good!
DUKE VINCENTIO:
And then my husband--God be with his soul!
But now I see this one is one too much,
Under our tents I'll play the eaves-dropper,
She says your worship means to make
Short tale to make, we at Saint Alban's met
But blessedly holp hither.
parle, know now, upon advice, it toucheth us both,
yare, yare! Take in the topsail. Tend to the
Now stops thy spring; my sea sha$l suck them dry,
The lion dying thrusteth forth his paw,
LADY GREY:
cabins: you do assist the storm.
Second Conspirator:
Now are our brows bound with victorious wreaths;
Would you not deem it breathed? and that those veins
On pain of torture, from those bloody hands
HORTENSIO:
GLOUCESTER:
Do thou but call my resolution wise,
One time will owe another.
Is not Gaunt dead, and doth not Hereford live?
GLOUCESTER:
Although I think 'twas in another sense;
As if he were the right Vincentio
Hath made a shameful conquest of itself.
Married my daughter there! for, coming thence,
And I to Norfolk with my followers.
BISHOP OF ELY:
But to the next highway, and there I left him.
LADY CAPULET:
And to myself become an enemy.
I was promised them against the feast; but they come
Of my behind-hand slackness. Welcome hither,
Nay, but you will?
show you, which shall be yours in private. Your
SEBASTIAN:
They smile at me that shortly shall be dead.
What's this? mutton?
They sit conferring by the parlor fire.
Romeo, away, be gone!
How many days will finish up the year;
Despair not, madam.
Comfort's in heaven; and we are on the earth,
O Paulina,
Second Murderer:
Help Marcius, help,
Full well hath Clifford play'd the orator,
You must return and mend it.
Athwart men's noses as they lie asleep;
But, lords, we hear this fearful tempest sing,
Save that, for reverence to some alive,
single: your abilities are too infant-like for
Was ever king so grieved for subjects' woe?
Yes, Caliban her son.
I know so. But, gentle Lady Anne,
And turn'd my captive state to liberty,
Three Dukes of Somerset, threefold renown'd
Noble Marcius!
You envy my advancement and my friends':
Would be find up, my brother, with our thanks;
As false, by heaven, as heaven itself is true.
Setting aside his high blood's royalty,
of it. A prize! a prize!
If not by war, by surfeit die your king,
I talk of you:
Now, where's my wife?
The narrow-prying father, Minola,
This is no mortal business, nor no sound
For suffering so the causes of our wreck.
As mine, against their will. Should all despair
Did I put Henry from his native right?
LADY GREY:
To take off so much grief from you as he
Commands me name myself.
Hence-banished is banish'd from the world,
Peace, ho! no outrage: peace!
O my dread lord,
Brother, we done deeds of charity;
From off my hands, here in the view of men
Who do prepare to meet him at the gates,
executioner, who in his office lacks a helper: if
Might stop our countryman.
Whether it like me or no, I am a courtier. Seest
Then you should hate Rome, as he does. Can you,
And all your northern castles yielded up,
GLOUCESTER:
And if thou fail us, all our hope is done:
From thine own sister's shame? What should I think?
CORIOLANUS:
And Prospero the prime duke, being so reputed
QUEEN MARGARET:
Go ply thy needle; meddle not with her.
HORTENSIO:
Romeo that spoke him fair, bade him bethink
And therein fasting, hast thou made me gaunt:
Whose sting is sharper than the sword's;
Or shall we on without a apology?
And woo her with some spirit when she comes.
for she hath privately twice or thrice a day, ever
Let them accuse me by invention, I
And stint thou too, I pray thee, nurse, say I.
Than violentest contrariety.
love not Marcius.
Nor your son Dorset, Buckingham, nor you;
Sicinius Velutus, and I know not--'Sdeath!
BIONDELLO:
Is the king's ship; in the deep nook, where once
I thought to crush him in an equal force,
Dove-feather'd raven! wolvish-ravening lamb!
In God's name, cheerly on, courageous friends,
'I Pray, sir'--Plague upon't! I cannot bring
These fifteen years! by my fay, a goodly nap.
And he to yours, and all of you to God's!
Or else you famish; that's a threefold death.
Lest thou be hated both of God and man!
Pray God, sir, your wife send you not a worse.
That made great Jove to humble him to her hand.
O' Thursday let it be: o' Thursday, tell her,
Henry of Lancaster, resign thy crown.
How ill-beseeming is it in thy sex
To answer us.
lyingest knave in Christendom. What! I am not
Wear it, enjoy it, and make much of it.
thank my good father, I am able to maintain it.
To my proceedings, if, with pure heart's love,
First Citizen:
These signs forerun the death or fall of kings.
With his unkindness? say't be so?
Lady, by yonder blessed moon I swear
I pardon him, as God shall pardon me.
How long a time lies in one little word!
HENRY BOLINGBROKE:
I see you do not mean to part with her,
DUCHESS OF YORK:
I have been feasting with mine enemy,
cracking the stones of the foresaid prunes,--
It was a mad fantastical trick of him to steal from
LADY CAPULET:
And I am ready to put armour on.
He that retires I'll take him for a Volsce,
And think it not the worst of an your fortunes
In soothing them, we nourish 'gainst our senate
Up to the ears. Come, we burn daylight, ho!
I tell thee what: get thee to church o' Thursday,
Doth watch Bianca's steps so narrowly,
Lord Clifford and Lord Stafford, all abreast,
PETRUCHIO:
Let us kill him, and we'll have corn at our own price.
And if I die, no soul shall pity me:
On his shoulder, and his; her face o' fire
The duke comes home to-morrow; nay, dry your eyes;
Pity may move thee 'pardon' to rehearse.
May make against the house of Lancaster.
What is thy news then?
That way inclining, harden'd be the hearts
That is renown'd for faith? Be fickle, fortune;
LORD WILLOUGHBY:
it may be quickly.
And yet we hear no tidings from the king;
For Somerset, off with his guilty head.
In self-same manner doth accuse my husband,
Your royal ear abused. First, hath this woman
The mayor towards Guildhall hies him in all post:
KATHARINA:
Methought he bore him in the thickest troop
Dogs, easily won to fawn on any man!
PRINCE EDWARD:
Then, by myself--
LADY CAPULET:
life, for then we are sure they are true.
Pass'd over to the end they were created,
At our enlargement what are thy due fees?
Who hither come engaged by my oath--
A shower and thunder with their caps and shouts:
And if you crown him, let me prophesy:
POLIXENES:
Of a poor 'pothecary, and therewithal
VINCENTIO:
All must be even in our government.
QUEEN MARGARET:
Thou wast the prettiest babe that e'er I nursed:
And liberal largess, are grown somewhat light,
For girls of nine, O, think what they have done
Charges she more than me?
So high above his limits swells the rage
HENRY BOLINGBROKE:
Not within, sir.
Then leave me not, my lords; be resolute;
Tell me of corn!
Thy tears are salter than a younger man's,
Albeit against my conscience and my soul.
Will prove as bitter, black, and tragical.
A combless cock, so Kate will be my hen.
She shall not.
How do you both? you are manifest house-keepers.
And that the Lord of Westmoreland shall maintain.
To undergo such ample grace and honour,
Thou wilt perform my bidding.
Where it perceives it is but faintly borne.
The duty that I owe unto your majesty
My books and instruments shall be my company,
BUCKINGHAM:
We all have strongly sworn to give him aid;
To take her in her heart's extremest hate,
FRIAR LAURENCE:
And so, good Capulet,--which name I tender
Thy sin's not accidental, but a trade.
That Bona shall be wife to the English king.
Beseech you, tenderly apply to her
A hell-hound that doth hunt us all to death:
learnedly handle, though they come to him by the
Why, then, I do but dream on sovereignty;
Weep thou for me in France, I for thee here;
With all her double vigour, art and nature,
Second Watchman:
You do not purpose to him; and as hardly
I may be consul.
O Warwick, Warwick! that Plantagenet,
To enter publicly: him I'll desire
If I may counsel you, some day or two
Do right unto this princely Duke of York,
First Senator:
The country, our dear nurse, or else thy person,
I am sorry that by hanging thee I can
I never was nor never will be false.
Hast thou met with him? Send thy man away.
From rascals worse than they.
Knowing by Paulina that the oracle
Nay, let us share thy thoughts, as thou dost ours.
may beg; four pound of prunes, and as many of
From mine own library with volumes that
The right and fortune of his happy stars;
And for because the world is populous
Was ever woman in this humour won?
Fair cousin, you debase your princely knee
So that we fled; the king unto the queen;
KING RICHARD III:
If I should tell thee o'er this thy day's work,
With what's unreal thou coactive art,
As theirs, so mine; and all be as it is.
By Providence divine.
You are a Roman, are you?
That all but we enjoy; for how can we,
KING RICHARD III:
About what?
pretty barne! A boy or a child, I wonder? A
And never trouble Peter for the matter.
With saints dost bait thy hook! Most dangerous
QUEEN ELIZABETH:
After the battle let George Stanley die.
For our affairs in hand: if that come short,
KING RICHARD II:
Get undescried.
Great lords, wise men ne'er sit and wail their loss,
Yes, certain, there's a letter for you; I saw't.
Will well become the seat of majesty,
Matters of needful value. We shall write to you,
This is the fruit of rashness! Mark'd you not
POLIXENES:
From love's weak childish bow she lives unharm'd.
on the highway: beating and hanging are terrors to
no more words.
And say 'Alas, it was a piteous deed!'
And consequently, like a traitor coward,
Therefore this order hath Baptista ta'en,
Is this done?
Of our so frank donation. Well, what then?
Lay on our royal sword your banish'd hands;
Canst thou demise to any child of mine?
For every pelting, petty officer
How hast thou injured both thyself and us!
Ready to fight; therefore be resolute.
O, let me speak!
See what I do deliver out to each,
Do you hear, ho? you must meet my master to
Go, get thee gone, I say.
An honest tale speeds best being plainly told.
Why, so he did, I am sure.
GLOUCESTER:
You may jest on, but, by the holy rood,
First Soldier:
That presses them and learns them first to bear,
By spying and avoiding fortune's malice,
Perhaps you mark'd not what's the pith of all.
The mightiest of thy greatest enemies,
Of that sweet way I was in to despair!
Alone, in company, still my care hath been
Seeing thou hast proved so unnatural a father
By whose direction found'st thou out this place?
LORD ROSS:
Mount, mount, my soul! thy seat is up on high;
Welcome, ladies, Welcome!
If I do so, it will be of more price,
Welcome, dear cousin, my thoughts' sovereign
PETRUCHIO:
Be thereat glean'd, for all the sun sees or
All tongues speak of him, and the bleared sights
Of all that hear me, and my near'st of kin
Leave me, or tarry, Edward will be king,
Still to remember wrongs? Daughter, speak you:
Had I thy youth and cause, I would not stay.
helmed must upon a warranted need give him a better
The usurping helmets of our adversaries!
Hunting thee hence with hunt's-up to the day,
O me, O me! My child, my only life,
I thought she had some great matter there in hand;
Some one with child by him? My cousin Juliet?
But shorten thy life one week. And thou, fresh piece
Wondrous! ay, I warrant you, and not without his
And I'll be chief to bring him down again:
Baptista is a noble gentleman,
Doth this news hold of good King Edward's death?
Shall bear the business in some other fight,
HORTENSIO:
To melt myself away in water-drops!
Or bathed thy growing with our heated bloods.
GLOUCESTER:
My liege, old Gaunt commends him to your majesty.
Young Adam Cupid, he that shot so trim,
victory in his pocket? the wounds become him.
Why, that was when
To be discover'd, that can do me good?
A fearful army, led by Caius Marcius
I spy a black, suspicious, threatening cloud,
To have a temple built you: all the swords
And merrily hent the stile-a:
Yield to our mercy, proud Plantagenet.
GLOUCESTER:
Of your great danger.
father and the gentlemen are in sad talk, and we'll
PETRUCHIO:
But I know none, and therefore am no beast.
We must suggest the people in what hatred
So much his friend, ay, his unfeigned friend,
No, not so much perdition as an hair
Corn for the rich men only: with these shreds
CORIOLANUS:
Marry. God forbid!
I crave their pardons:
How? the best?
And play'd to take spectators. For behold me
wisely, wisely.
Well, but what's o'clock?
QUEEN MARGARET:
That birds would sing and think it were not night.
QUEEN ELIZABETH:
I'll join with black despair against my soul,
'It is as hard to come as for a camel
And by an eminent body that enforced
That owes two buckets, filling one another,
That, were I crown'd the most imperial monarch,
From thy admiring daughter took the spirits,
A dateless bargain to engrossing death!
Are bringing forth our youth. We'll break our walls,
JOHN OF GAUNT:
Thus in plain terms: your father hath consented
Yet, Derby, notwithstanding she's your wife,
dearer love.
Sorrow breaks seasons and reposing hours,
Being purged, a fire sparkling in lovers' eyes;
VINCENTIO:
HENRY PERCY:
Bianca's grief.
Now, brother Richard, will you stand by us?
LADY GREY:
Which we ourselves have plough'd for, sow'd,
Both who he is and why he cometh hither
Tyrannical power: if he evade us there,
QUEEN ELIZABETH:
Well, no more of it, Master Froth: farewell.
The slave of nature and the son of hell!
Forbiddenly.
How happy then were my ensuing death!
With humble and familiar courtesy,
Let him die for't.
The prince my brother hath outgrown me far.
Refuse not, mighty lord, this proffer'd love.
Romeo will answer it.
In your condemned seconds.
Ah, wretched man! would I had died a maid
I would adventure for such merchandise.
Not so hot, good sir:
He's a lamb indeed, that baes like a bear.
It is an heretic that makes the fire,
You have said you will not grant us any thing;
There is no virtue like necessity.
Ho! who's here?
thine eyes so red: thou must be patient. I am fain
The people's enemy is gone, is gone!
Sword, pike, knife, gun, or need of any engine,
BUCKINGHAM:
KING RICHARD III:
written, that the shoemaker should meddle with his
And with thy blessings steel my lance's point,
Too swift arrives as tardy as too slow.
Peace, thou! and give King Henry leave to speak.
GLOUCESTER:
NORTHUMBERLAND:
Would you imagine, or almost believe,
Where is your ancient courage? you were used
That's seal'd in approbation? You, Lord Escalus,
In all these circumstances I'll instruct you:
As likely to be blest in peace and war;
First Soldier:
I think it best you married with the county.
And are upon the Mediterranean flote,
In the main battle, whose puissance on either side
Their rotten privilege and custom 'gainst
clients: though you change your place, you need not
water to quench it. I was hardly moved to come to
Peace and prosperity! Who is't that calls
Thou chid'st me oft for loving Rosaline.
JOHN OF GAUNT:
What stars do spangle heaven with such beauty,
BUCKINGHAM:
That will I make before I let thee go.
To prove myself a loyal gentleman
DUKE VINCENTIO:
BIONDELLO:
Good morning to you, fair and gracious daughter.
'Tis done, my gracious lord.
have not deserved nobly.
Wipe off the dust that hides our sceptre's gilt
and then have to't a fresh. Sweet Bianca! Happy man
And after that trust to thee.
Both Tribunes:
I here renounce him and return to Henry.
It will the woefullest division prove
Were shame enough to shame thee, wert thou not shameless.
Thou dost advise me
person; and much please the absent duke, if
I am the son of Henry the Fifth,
when he shall come to his account, he knows not
Would all themselves laugh mortal.
Fill'd it with cursing cries and deep exclaims.
the map of my microcosm, follows it that I am known
Wert thou not banished on pain of death?
Let me unkiss the oath 'twixt thee and me;
And I in better state than e'er I was.
KING LEWIS XI:
Thou art a widow, and thou hast some children;
She may, my lord, for--
Boatswain:
What, you will not? Prithee, tell my master what a
I will avouch in presence of the king:
thou what thou art, by art as well as by nature:
The king's will be perform'd!
Nay; I beseech you, mark it well.
Had loved you as we did.
Second Servingman:
As if the world were all dissolved to tears,
We kill the fowl of season: shall we serve heaven
Arise, fair sun, and kill the envious moon,
after three-pence a bay: if you live to see this
Were it not pity that this goodly boy
What cheer? how is't with you, best brother?
PETRUCHIO:
I lay unto the grievous charge of others.
PETRUCHIO:
This is no witness for Lord Angelo.
Second Keeper:
Every good hap to you that chances here:
Since last I went to France to fetch his queen:
But with a rear-ward following Tybalt's death,
Gremio, 'tis now no time to vent our love:
And he will make the face of heaven so fine
From those that wish the downfall of our house!
merriest was put down, and the worser allowed by
Right well, dear madam. By your patience,
Of force enough to bid his brother battle;
Cannot thy master sleep these tedious nights?
goodness, that the dissolution of it must cure it:
What, not a word? Nay, then thou lovest it not;
Or, if you'ld ask, remember this before:
Hath seized the wasteful king. O, what pity is it
Go we to our tent:
Taste of it first, as thou art wont to do.
Here in Vienna, sir.
God keep you from them, and from such false friends!
Say, uncle Gloucester, if our brother come,
Sirrah, go see what trumpet 'tis that sounds:
I go: and towards three or four o'clock
By your renouncement an immortal spirit,
To entail him and his heirs unto the crown,
HENRY BOLINGBROKE:
It may be right; but you are i' the wrong
When I wore it at your daughter's marriage?
Where is the master, boatswain?
A power I have, but of what strength and nature
Not he alone shall suffer what wit can make heavy
And you, my noble and well-warranted cousin,
So did he me: and he no more remembers his mother
Some dreadful story hanging on thy tongue?
It is not yet near day. Come, go with me;
DUKE VINCENTIO:
Her affability and bashful modesty,
That you might know it, would much better please me
And death unloads thee. Friend hast thou none;
I've hope to live, and am prepared to die.
Go before, nurse: commend me to thy lady;
As he began, and not unknit himself
Is colder tidings, yet they must be told.
Is the obedience to a master, one
To Henry Bolingbroke.
Before so noble and so great a figure
O pretty Isabella, I am pale at mine heart to see
But shall we wear these honours for a day?
Those will I muster up: and thou, son Clarence,
Than pity to our prayers. Down: an end;
Ah, what a life were this! how sweet! how lovely!
O, doubt not that;
What, shall this speech be spoke for our excuse?
And, sweet sprites, the burthen bear.
Women are soft, mild, pitiful and flexible;
Is it upon record, or else reported
For Edward will defend the town and thee,
CORIOLANUS:
With whom an upright zeal to right prevails
Which, till my infant fortune comes to years,
I must be held a rancorous enemy.
KING LEWIS XI:
Could I with boot change for an idle plume,
Dry up your tears, and stick your rosemary
That thus affect'st a sheep-hook! Thou old traitor,
And be thy wife--if any be so mad--
I'll slit the villain's nose, that would have sent
GLOUCESTER:
What you have done--before our army hear me.
PETRUCHIO:
him up ever since he was three years old, and his
What you do
And frown upon 's.
He hath some meaning in his mad attire:
The time and my intents are savage-wild,
Hence from Verona art thou banished:
O, musicians, because my heart itself plays 'My
The kindred of the queen, must die at Pomfret.
Take heed you dally not before your king;
Broken his staff of office and dispersed
O, what more favour can I do to thee,
Fit to instruct her youth. If you, Hortensio,
Lay her a-hold, a-hold! set her two courses off to
At thy great glory. Look not to the ground,
KATHARINA:
What, man! 'tis not so much, 'tis not so much:
Speak gentle words and humbly bend thy knee,
Or shut me nightly in a charnel-house,
Little are we beholding to your love,
We hate alike:
Hath almost overta'en him in his growth.
That I may see my shadow as I pass.
Pardon is still the nurse of second woe:
Faith, we may put up our pipes, and be gone.
Here comes your father: never make denial;
Our title to the crown and only claim
What think'st thou, then, of Stanley? what will he?
They are; and Bolingbroke
Once, if he do require our voices, we ought not to deny him.
for a commodity of brown paper and old ginger,
Hear me one word;
I pray thee, leave me to myself to-night,
Thy head, all indirectly, gave direction:
The heads of Brocas and Sir Bennet Seely,
cuff was but to knock at your ear, and beseech
O hear me, Isabella!
We'll forward towards Warwick and his mates;
Unheard; what then?
Flow'd with her beauty once: 'tis shrewdly ebb'd,
For this was of much length,--the vile conclusion
And he shall spend mine honour with his shame,
thy master's father, Vincentio?
Repented o'er his doom.
very monster in apparel, and not like a Christian
Now breathe we, lords: good fortune bids us pause,
A noble fellow, I warrant him.
Gardener, for telling me these news of woe,
Is either slain or wounded dangerously;
I must be patient till the heavens look
KING RICHARD III:
I beseech your graces both to pardon me;
I come to pierce it, or to give thee mine.
And only in that safety died her brothers.
Might in the ground be closed up in rest!
The cockle of rebellion, insolence, sedition,
ARCHBISHOP OF YORK:
Unclasp'd my practise, quit his fortunes here,
Cannot conclude but by the yea and no
But, soft! what light through yonder window breaks?
Would he do so, I'ld beg your precious mistress,
Frederick the great soldier who miscarried at sea?
For that, being one o' the lowest, basest, poorest,
GLOUCESTER:
In any chastisement: I for a while will leave you;
Make that thy question, and go rot!
That you might well enjoy her.
Flutter'd your Volscians in Corioli:
Was ever woman in this humour woo'd?
With too much urging your pernicious lives,
That's a brave fellow; but he's vengeance proud, and
It back to Tybalt, whose dexterity,
O excellent devise! make a sop of him.
'Tis Aufidius,
Grandam, this would have been a biting jest.
I wonder how our princely father 'scaped,
DUKE VINCENTIO:
Once more, take her hence.
Ay, and the time seems thirty unto me,
First Keeper:
And leave you to the hearing of the cause;
Where is my lady's lord, where's Romeo?
My father of this business.
Will they not hear? What, ho! you men, you beasts,
O, my heart bleeds
Do, Paulina;
It shall be moon, or star, or what I list,
Is new committed to the Bishop of York,
QUEEN MARGARET:
Then, since the heavens have shaped my body so,
As I will meet thee, if thou stir abroad--
We are not furnish'd like Bohemia's son,
O, not by much.
That he could gnaw a crust at two hours old
But Thomas, my dear lord, my life, my Gloucester,
you much mirth.
What good condition can a treaty find
DUKE OF YORK:
GLOUCESTER:
Than stay, past doubt, for greater:
Should slip so grossly, both in the heat of blood.
I should leave grazing, were I of your flock,
To speak your deeds, not little of his care
And his to me:
Affrights thee with a hell of ugly devils!
Had I it written, I would tear the word.
When will he be here?
This is the last: so we will home to Rome,
No marrying 'mong his subjects?
to pluck him off me, how he swore, how she prayed,
As make the angels weep; who, with our spleens,
NORTHUMBERLAND:
That stops my way in Padua. Grumio,
All lost! to prayers, to prayers! all lost!
not heard of the proclamation, have you?
Had he been slaughter-man to all my kin,
O, in this love, you love your child so ill,
What is the matter?
Our steed the leg, the tongue our trumpeter.
Requires nor child nor woman's face to see.
Intents but merely thoughts.
I fear, too early: for my mind misgives
My lord and you were then at Mantua:--
POLIXENES:
And, that I love the tree from whence thou sprang'st,
Second Murderer:
Attend us through the city.
JOHN OF GAUNT:
And, with a martial scorn, with one hand beats
Are come to have some conference with his grace.
We have led since thy exile. Think with thyself
Some twenty of them fought in this black strife,
Ha, ha! what a fool Honesty is! and Trust, his
Did you yet ever see Baptista's daughter?
Than beauty could, display'd. But mark me;
Uncle, you say the queen is at your house;
To come at traitors' calls and do them grace.
By fearing to attempt. Go to Lord Angelo,
Thou elvish-mark'd, abortive, rooting hog!
If I may have your daughter to my wife,
And death's pale flag is not advanced there.
And to be boy eternal.
We charge you, that you have contrived to take
My best beloved and approved friend,
Nor that is not the lark, whose notes do beat
Transform'd and weaken'd? hath Bolingbroke deposed
To be set high in place, we did commend
That ever made eye swerve, had force and knowledge
Will I apply that treats of happiness
Here come more voices.
So is the equal of this fell war.
And keep her at my cell till Romeo come;
DUKE VINCENTIO:
to prison, Pompey?
Her fruit-trees all upturned, her hedges ruin'd,
Towards our assistance we do seize to us
Are they returned to the court?
Who cried aloud, 'What scourge for perjury
This music mads me; let it sound no more;
Had I been there, which am a silly woman,
To be full quit of those my banishers,
Where is the enemy? are you lords o' the field?
I shall forget, to have thee still stand there,
For why, the senseless brands will sympathize
'Ay, by gogs-wouns,' quoth he; and swore so loud,
'Hic steterat,' and that Lucentio that comes
Yea, my good lord.
That they are not the first of fortune's slaves,
Why, very well, then,--
This gentleman, the prince's near ally,
Will ne'er wear out the everlasting flint:
Then thus. Baptista is safe, talking with the
Now, by mine honour, by my life, by my troth,
As thou and I; who, as thou know'st, are dear
in place where, thou shouldst know it.
That she, poor wretch, for grief can speak no more;
Make pale our cheek, chasing the royal blood
Thereof most worthy, were I the fairest youth
A greater gift than that I'll give my cousin.
It were a shame to let this land by lease;
But march to London with our soldiers?
Her pastures' grass with faithful English blood.
I have look'd on thousands, who have sped the better
No, my lord.
Pretty! What say you, Hugh Rebeck?
My Lord Northumberland, see them dispatch'd.
In levity: since which time of five years
Go, some of you convey him to the Tower.
O, let me pray before I take my death!
Blind is his love and best befits the dark.
Why, every fault's condemn'd ere it be done:
A visor for a visor! what care I
When I should bid good morrow to my bride,
I would prolong awhile the traitor's life.
Clifford, devise excuses for thy faults.
Unless they seek for hatred at my hands;
Then whither he goes, thither let me go.
It is yours;
Nay, stay not to expostulate, make speed;
All men, I hope, live so.
No more talking on't; let it be done: away, away!
Second Gentleman:
PETRUCHIO:
To the hopeful execution do I leave you
PETRUCHIO:
Which our divines lose by 'em.
FRIAR LAURENCE:
Inter their bodies as becomes their births:
You shall have aid.
God save King Harry, unking'd Richard says,
Well, well, we'll leave you.
Why, then All-Souls' day is my body's doomsday.
And if he chance to speak, be ready straight
Were fit for thee to use as they to claim,
Sound trumpets! let our bloody colours wave!
Then he was urged to tell my tale again,
man's voice.
Should run thy head from thy unreverent shoulders.
But to be rough, unswayable and free.
DUKE VINCENTIO:
Held in contempt; whilst many fair promotions
Exeter, so will I.
And in conclusion she shall watch all night:
He durst not sit there, had your father lived.
Blind sight, dead life, poor mortal living ghost,
shall beat out my brains with billets: I will not
Melting with tenderness and kind compassion
Therefore I came unto your majesty.
I am sure, sweet Kate, this kindness merits thanks.
To some remote and desert place quite out
Whom I will marry straight to Clarence' daughter:
And give more strength to that which hath too much,
For here we need it not.
I follow you.
The appellant in all duty greets your highness,
NORTHUMBERLAND:
I came to her from Claudio, and desired her
For all in vain comes counsel to his ear.
Here come the lords.
Which I do last pronounce, is, O you wonder!
am peppered, I warrant, for this world. A plague o'
It shall be to him then as our good wills,
Thereon dependent, for your brother's life,--
I ne'er heard yet
I do not like these several councils, I.
Thou and these woes were all for Rosaline:
Is coming towards me, and my inward soul
I may be heard, I would crave a word or two;
And that a winged Mercury did bear:
Whereof our uncle Gaunt did stand possess'd.
Hark, Tranio! thou may'st hear Minerva speak.
Wherein, my friends, have I offended you?
But can you, if you would?
Then have you lost a sight, which was to be seen,
Was woe enough, if it had ended there:
VINCENTIO:
Breathe out invectives 'gainst the officers.
'Tis very true, my grief lies all within;
thing that is fitting to be known, discover.
That idles in the wanton summer air,
tall fellow of thy hands and that thou wilt be
But the true ground of all these piteous woes
Methought the souls of all that I had murder'd
BIONDELLO:
King Edward, valiant Richard, Montague,
But what said Warwick to these injuries?
For he hath still been tried a holy man.
Never till then.
When I was last in Holborn,
FRIAR LAURENCE:
Take't up, I say; give't to thy crone.
Persuades me I was better when a king;
Was grown into a hoop? hast thou forgot her?
I would have had you put your power well on,
Hold thy peace:
And bury all, which yet distinctly ranges,
Well, he in time may come to clear himself;
At last, though long, our jarring notes agree:
Bloody thou art, bloody will be thy end;
Why, so: you have made good work!
Instead whereof let this supply the room:
Beguiled, divorced, wronged, spited, slain!
That thou neglect me not, with that opinion
I have sat too long.
As I have done, thou wouldst be more pitiful.
And fire-eyed fury be my conduct now!
From cold and empty veins, where no blood dwells;
Tongue far from heart--play with all virgins so:
I shall remember more. Bid him--ah, what?--
PETRUCHIO:
That slew thy kinsman, brave Mercutio.
HORTENSIO:
For saints have hands that pilgrims' hands do touch,
Being held a foe, he may not have access
Away, you fool! it more becomes a man
Of burning youth.
First Gentleman:
To blazon it, then sweeten with thy breath
And from the cross-row plucks the letter G.
Of breaking honesty--horsing foot on foot?
As all the world is cheered by the sun,
What's here? one dead, or drunk? See, doth he breathe?
And let the subject see, to make them know
As full of valour as of royal blood:
To his most royal person, hither come
Montague, Montague, for Lancaster!
To the utmost of a man, and giddy censure
It would seem strange unto him when he waked.
mother shall bring from him: there is no more mercy
We need no more of your advice: the matter,
This is the prettiest low-born lass that ever
Hath from the number of his banish'd years
We will, my noble lord.
Shall I obtain it?
KING RICHARD II:
To enter human hearing, from Argier,
KING RICHARD III:
So much to my good comfort, as it is
No! why? When he that is my husband now
Presented to my knife his throat: I took him;
Banish'd the new-made bridegroom from the city,
POLIXENES:
CORIOLANUS:
Second Senator:
My lord, I like not of this flight of Edward's;
The happy man; whether defect of judgment,
Your purse is not hot enough to purchase your spice.
And give assurance to Baptista Minola,
He hath a garden circummured with brick,
Found that the issue was not his begot;
The chaplain of the Tower hath buried them;
the love of Juno, let's go.
It carries a brave form. But 'tis a spirit.
promise-keeping.
Read the indictment.
That's the way; for women are light at midnight.
To breathe the abundant dolour of the heart.
Equal with wondering: what of her ensues
And what to her adheres, which follows after,
Her chariot is an empty hazel-nut
Without more overture.
KING RICHARD III:
Of our dominions, and that there thou leave it,
Then whither goest? say, whither?
Stay yet another day, thou trusty Welshman:
My joy of liberty is half eclipsed.
DUKE VINCENTIO:
NORTHUMBERLAND:
him like a carbon ado.
KATHARINA:
An undergoing stomach, to bear up
Into this breathing world, scarce half made up,
To see her women? any of them? Emilia?
Mine honour is my life; both grow in one:
Now York and Lancaster are reconciled.
A noble servant to them; but he could not
By doing damned hate upon thyself?
This shall be done, good father, presently.
At any time have recourse unto the princes.
To learn the order of my fingering,
dares, being dared.
And his offence is so, as it appears,
As he hath spices of them all, not all,
If guilty dread have left thee so much strength
KING RICHARD III:
Do what you can, yours will not be entreated.
What would you do?
Go, rate thy minions, proud insulting boy!
Aufidius got off.
Renowned queen, with patience calm the storm,
Why does my blood thus muster to my heart,
And bite thy tongue, that slanders him with cowardice
Lo, here I lend thee this sharp-pointed sword;
LADY CAPULET:
FRIAR LAURENCE:
I brought my master news of Juliet's death;
To bear the tidings of calamity.
No public benefit which you receive
He had rather venture all his limbs for honour
I was adopted heir by his consent:
Draws out our miles, and makes them wearisome,
Unreasonable creatures feed their young;
Very well:
Preoccupied with what you rather must do
That go before it.
Second Keeper:
Will not King Richard let me speak with him?
Then say, Jove laughs. O gentle Romeo,
Not now, not now.
No, it begins again.
To Italy; and there at Venice gave
Ah, Juliet, if the measure of thy joy
Not a resemblance, but a certainty. Yet since I see
'Tis time to speak; my pains are quite forgot.
But, as I say, such as become a soldier,
such weak breath as this? No, you are deceived;
And here I stand, both to impeach and purge
Avaunt, thou dreadful minister of hell!
GLOUCESTER:
BRAKENBURY:
stand for his place. He received in the repulse of
But thus, I trust, you will not marry her.
As index to the story we late talk'd of,
Who knocks so hard? whence come you? what's your will?
your pleasures; at the least if you take it as a
A fellow of the royal bed, which owe
me to-morrow, and you shall find me a grave man. I
His resemblance, being not like the duke;
To the pot, I warrant him.
KATHARINA:
KATHARINA:
To die for't!
My gracious lord, Henry your foe is taken,
Peter, didst ever see the like?
PETRUCHIO:
Why, this was known before.
I cannot do't without counters. Let me see; what am
Good friar, let's hear it.
So cowards fight when they can fly no further;
DUKE OF AUMERLE:
Has these poor men in question. Never saw I
If you have writ your annals true, 'tis there,
You do the nobler.
LADY ANNE:
No, Caius Marcius;
I thank your worship. For mine own part, I never
KING HENRY VI:
Farewell, sweet lords: let's meet at Coventry.
I pay thy poverty, and not thy will.
resolved to die.
Thus to have said,
As I did him, and speak of something wildly
Falls into forfeit: he arrests him on it;
For being a little bad: so may my husband.
I doubt not, uncle, of our victory.
What if both Lewis and Warwick be appeased
And son unto the king, who, heavens directing,
Now blessed be the great Apollo!
Haberdasher:
A banish'd traitor: all my treasury
Revenged may she be on that hateful duke,
For, I am sure, you have your hands full all,
His givings-out were of an infinite distance
And that, by great injunctions, I am bound
HENRY BOLINGBROKE:
Do't and thou hast the one half of my heart;
And that to the infection of my brains
My Lord of Hereford, my message is to you.
It was i' the offering!
GLOUCESTER:
Ah, Clifford, murder not this innocent child,
Nay, but hear me.
Not of this country, though my chance is now
Suppose the singing birds musicians,
Nothing but sit and sit, and eat and eat!
As my sweet Richard: yet again, methinks,
But, ere they live, to end.
My leisure serves me, pensive daughter, now.
And all good men of this ungovern'd isle.
Now comes the sick hour that his surfeit made;
That we could hear no news of his repair?
From where he should begin and end, but will
Why dost thou wrong her that did ne'er wrong thee?
favour is well approved by your tongue. What's the
Chide me no more. I'll mountebank their loves,
Canker'd with peace, to part your canker'd hate:
Men well inclined to hear what thou command'st:
Have strain'd to appear thus: if one jot beyond
Besides, upon the very siege of justice
'Twere good he were school'd.
To the freshest things now reigning and make stale
As much to you, good sister! Whither away?
shore of my modesty: but my brother justice have I
Have I, thy schoolmaster, made thee more profit
To closeness and the bettering of my mind
Thus, like the formal vice, Iniquity,
And this is Edward's wife, that monstrous witch,
redeliver our authorities there
When my good falcon made her flight across
KATHARINA:
Edward and Richard, like a brace of greyhounds
As for my country I have shed my blood,
Lord, how it looks about! Believe me, sir,
Bound with an oath to yield to his conditions:
Adonis painted by a running brook,
The cloak of night being pluck'd from off their backs,
Come, sister,--cousin, I would say--pray, pardon me.
DUKE VINCENTIO:
KATHARINA:
sufferance is a gain to them Let us revenge this with
Turns to restraint. Our natures do pursue,
Good my friends,
And yet within these five hours lived Lord Hastings,
can do you little harm; you'll forswear this again.
Messenger:
O, no! the apprehension of the good
Even so as I mine own course have set down:
Petruchio, go thy ways; the field is won.
Insult without all reason, where gentry, title, wisdom,
Nothing but that; move still, still so,
When I am alone, why, then I am Tranio;
Hath twice done salutation to the morn;
O, she is rich in beauty, only poor,
DUKE OF YORK:
With Cupid's arrow; she hath Dian's wit;
O, be thou Dian, and let her be Kate;
ribbon, glass, pomander, brooch, table-book, ballad,
3 KING HENRY VI
was hurt under your arm.
When she will take the rein I let her run;
This royal throne of kings, this scepter'd isle,
Yet that, by you deposed, you quake like rebels?
QUEEN MARGARET:
Ay, ay, a scratch, a scratch; marry, 'tis enough.
To draw with idle spiders' strings
Teach thy necessity to reason thus;
Come, sir.
GLOUCESTER:
She shall not need; we'll meet her in the field.
So come to you and yours, as to this Prince!
Second Keeper:
I think he'll hear me. Yet, to bite his lip
His hands were guilty of no kindred blood,
John Duke of Norfolk, Thomas Earl of Surrey,
Like one i' the stocks. Thou hast never in thy life
And either victory, or else a grave.
PETRUCHIO:
Or those eyes shut, that make thee answer 'I.'
Uncle, give me your hands: nay, dry your eyes;
LADY GREY:
For truth, for duty, and for loyalty.
Most sorry, you have broken from his liking
And, when thou wed'st, let sorrow haunt thy bed;
To cheque time broke in a disorder'd string;
Which almost burst to belch it in the sea.
Away, fond woman! were he twenty times my son,
and will speak more in a minute than he will stand
Say then, who dost thou mean shall be her king?
and let me desire to know how you find Claudio
The first conditions, which they did refuse
Gentleman:
But with a lingering dram that should not work
If sorrow can admit society,
I thank your worship for your good counsel:
HENRY BOLINGBROKE:
To better purpose.
My absolute power and place here in Vienna,
If you do wrongfully seize Hereford's rights,
Give me the boy: I am glad you did not nurse him:
Cursed be the hand that made these fatal holes!
Plays such fantastic tricks before high heaven
She had just cause.
And see it instantly consumed with fire;
Hath overta'en mine act.
My hazards still have been your solace: and
First Lord:
And charges him my lord, with such a time
The swifter speed the better.
has the prettiest love-songs for maids; so without
If ever any grudge were lodged between us;
Were red-hot steel, to sear me to the brain!
As you were lesson'd, when he had no power,
Confusion's near; I cannot speak. You, tribunes
Lest with my sighs or tears I blast or drown
Ten thousand men that fishes gnaw'd upon;
I would not--though 'tis my familiar sin
If that your moody discontented souls
Go you before, and I will follow you.
Through it do well, I do not relish well
Deserves your hate; and your affections are
'When griping grief the heart doth wound,
Which end o' the beam should bow. We have lost your
art as honest a true fellow as any is in Bohemia.
And spurn upon thee, beggar, for thy boldness.
Only to stick it in their children's sight
Canst with thine eyes at once see good and evil,
Go with me to clothe you as becomes you.
First Servant:
I think you are happy in this second match,
Beyond the mark of others: our then dictator,
And follow Marcius.
That creep like shadows by him and do sigh
Against thy entrance.
Than death can yield me here by my abode.
a merciful man; good my lord.
Good uncle, let this end where it begun;
Relent! 'tis cowardly and womanish.
Which now came from him.
Is't not enough thou hast suborn'd these women
And he that throws not up his cap for joy
Here come those I have done good to against my will,
With them Sir Thomas Vaughan, prisoners.
And call'd it Rougemont: at which name I started,
A wave o' the sea, that you might ever do
Some lay in dead men's skulls; and, in those holes
I must have patience to endure the load:
Hath had no power yet upon thy beauty:
hundred bastards, he would have paid for the nursing
For I shall never speak to thee again.
KING RICHARD II:
For death, for fine, or banishment, then let them
Gentle my liege,--
For mine own part,
Say that she frown, I'll say she looks as clear
As dearly as my own,--be satisfied.
That reigns in galled eyes of weeping souls,
How! dare not! do not. Do you know, and dare not?
No, no; by God's good grace his son shall reign.
CORIOLANUS:
So many guests invite as here are writ.
More than mistress of
he's a better woodman than thou takest him for.
Envied against the people, seeking means
To answer that, I should confess to you.
Fetch from false Mowbray their first head and spring.
with an iron wit, and put up my iron dagger. Answer
But thou slew'st Tybalt; there are thou happy too:
Third Messenger:
Had left no mourning widows for our death;
It is spoke freely out of many mouths--
There is a sickness
Neighbours and friends, though bride and
Tut, she's a lamb, a dove, a fool to him!
I have no more sons of the royal blood
Thou art thence banish'd, we would muster all
That did but show thee, of a fool, inconstant
While we bethink a means to break it off.
Had our prince,
Good counsel, marry: learn it, learn it, marquess.
The effects of his fond jealousies so grieving
That made him send Lord Hastings to the Tower,
Here, most gracious liege.
Once more to look on him.
I promised we would be contributors
To melt the city leads upon your pates,
I may entitle thee my loving father:
If the king had no son, they would desire to live
Embrace each other's love in banishment;
The queen is coming with a puissant host;
Still live they and for ever may they last!
And all their ministers attend on him.
My gracious lord,
Bearing the king in my behalf along;
Thy kinsman and thy friends, I'll have more lives
First Senator:
Into an auger's bore.
I mentioned a son o' the king's, which Florizel
Come, come.
These tears are my sweet Rutland's obsequies:
mistress. Thou pratest, and pratest; serve with thy
For at their hands I have deserved no pity.
I say it shall be so.
And from my heart's love I do thank thee for it.
That I am touch'd with madness! Make not impossible
man and his son aboard the prince: told him I heard
O noble prince, I can discover all
For my part, I'll not trouble thee with words.
Stand in their ancient strength.
Shall be the label to another deed,
And promise them success and victory.
To an infected jelly and my name
LADY CAPULET:
Why should hard-favour'd grief be lodged in thee,
Since I am charged in honour and by him
I would I were a Roman; for I cannot,
And say 'Will't please your lordship cool your hands?'
And nothing marted with him. If your lass
O slaves, I can tell you news,-- news, you rascals!
Sweet, sweet, sweet nurse, tell me, what says my love?
Till we assign you to your days of trial.
AUTOLYCUS:
Convenient numbers to make good the city;
gentleman of all temperance. But leave we him to
Was Ajax, call'd so from his grandfather.
With clog of conscience and sour melancholy
Which too untimely here did scorn the earth.
Unless that husband send it me from heaven
DUKE OF AUMERLE:
That when he speaks not like a citizen,
To let him there a month behind the gest
As I by friends am well advertised,
And lived by looking on his images:
Not doing 't and being done: he, most humane
Whence comest thou? what wouldst thou? thy name?
Clarence hath not another day to live:
The helms o' the state, who care for you like fathers,
And I, with grief and sorrow, to the court.
Or lose mine arm fort: thou hast beat me out
I have a king here to my flatterer.
That his blood flows, or that his appetite
For nought so vile that on the earth doth live
FERDINAND:
This is most likely!
And in the sentence my own life destroy'd.
Third Citizen:
Petruchio, shall I then come roundly to thee
Didst yield consent to disinherit him,
In saying so, you shall but say the truth.
With its sweet air: thence I have follow'd it,
Upon the sisterhood, the votarists of Saint Clare.
'Widow Dido' said you? you make me study of that:
Either I must, or have mine honour soil'd
Here stand we both, and aim we at the best:
delivered him to his liberty or executed him? I
truly, my ancient skill beguiles me; but, in the
LORD ROSS:
Which I dispersed, they all have met again
walk: I will even take my leave of you, and pace
No more words, we beseech you.
To prove, by God's grace and my body's valour,
KATHARINA:
Was stay'd by accident, and yesternight
And let me use my sword, I'll make a quarry
May be a precedent and witness good
He would unhorse the lustiest challenger.
His dukedom and his chair with me is left.
Therefore he sends to know your lordship's pleasure,
My sceptre for a palmer's walking staff,
GLOUCESTER:
Than you are mad; which is enough, I'll warrant,
provost, honesty and constancy: if I read it not
As I have loved this proud disdainful haggard.
I cannot tell; I fear 'tis choleric.
If it were so,--
And make her bear the penance of her tongue?
The sky, it seems, would pour down stinking pitch,
That bears the name of life? Yet in this life
Doth not the object cheer your heart, my lord?
How now! what news?
DUCHESS OF YORK:
PETRUCHIO:
All exercise on thee; thou shalt be pinch'd
It were lost sorrow to wail one that's lost.
KING HENRY VI:
The traitor speak, and timorously confess
But, wherefore, villain, didst thou kill my cousin?
DUKE VINCENTIO:
And I forgive and quite forget old faults,
She should this Angelo have married; was affianced
Brother, though I be youngest, give me leave.
Leave me, and do the thing I bid thee do.
For my part, I'll resign unto your grace
The law that threaten'd death becomes thy friend
My mother, and my nurse, that bears me yet!
Or like an idle thresher with a flail,
FRIAR LAURENCE:
I am gone for ever.
Whom thou wert sworn to cherish and defend.
Whom I believe to be most strait in virtue,
Nor friends nor foes, to me welcome you are:
Unto my cell.
Which robs my tongue from breathing native breath?
And still is friend to him and Margaret:
I'ld throw it down for your deliverance
I confess the cape.
Madam, what makes you in this sudden change?
After a storm; quaff'd off the muscadel
Have made them mules, silenced their pleaders and
And was at last out-faced by Bolingbroke?
Than let him so be lost. O most kind maid,
is this thy vow unto my sickly heart.
O, I do fear thee, Claudio; and I quake,
KING EDWARD IV:
Hath caused his death: the which if wrongfully,
Yet know, my master, God omnipotent,
Welcome to Rome, renowned Coriolanus!
To help our fielded friends! Come, blow thy blast.
And wheresoe'er he is, he's surely dead.
Resides not in that man that does not think,--
Men are but gilded loam or painted clay.
Tell Bolingbroke--for yond methinks he stands--
very notes of admiration: they seemed almost, with
But from Lord Angelo by special charge.
Misthink the king and not be satisfied!
BUCKINGHAM:
Then, Isabel, live chaste, and, brother, die:
Father, be quiet; he shall stay my leisure.
Where foxes, geese: you are no surer, no,
Seen how his son's son should destroy his sons,
And the queen's sons and brothers haught and proud:
KING RICHARD III:
You're a made old man: if the sins of your youth
and the man in blood, they will out of their
Methought I had; and often did I strive
KING EDWARD IV:
And, live we how we can, yet die we must.
accuseth him; he cannot swear, but it cheques him;
Then this is mine opinion: that King Lewis
Or else a hovering temporizer, that
That she shall still be curst in company.
Like a false traitor and injurious villain.
Where should be graven, if that right were right,
Ah! and did they so?
We do debase ourselves, cousin, do we not,
Bid me farewell.
Or, with the rest, where is your darling Rutland?
The vaporous night approaches.
Within your house, to make mine eye the witness
Withal I did infer your lineaments,
For ever may my knees grow to the earth,
her to try with main-course.
The one in fear to lose what they enjoy,
NORTHUMBERLAND:
Of whom you seem to have so tender care?
Against him first: he's a very dog to the commonalty.
Right glad I am he was not at this fray.
My father dead, my fortune lives for me;
And yet partake no venom, for his knowledge
Now swallow down that lie. For Gloucester's death,
Think upon me! hang 'em!
Now, they believe it; and withal whet me
A lack, when once our grace we have forgot,
To pay their awful duty to our presence?
Well, if you be a king crown'd with content,
Marry, sir, with needle and thread.
His tongue is now a stringless instrument;
How fares the prince?
There's many a gentle person made a Jack.
Now, Thomas Mowbray, do I turn to thee,
There is a plot against my life, my crown;
While we devise fell tortures for thy faults.
That is, to watch her, as we watch these kites
THOMAS MOWBRAY:
To her allowing husband!
Who is't that goes with me? Beseech your highness,
And, seeking death, find life: let it come on.
In name of lendings for your highness' soldiers,
Through casements darted their desiring eyes
Few words suffice; and therefore, if thou know
Yours, if you talk of tails: and so farewell.
Come, citizens: 'zounds! I'll entreat no more.
FRANCISCO:
There are pretty orders beginning, I can tell you:
My lord protector needs will have it so.
But first I'll turn yon fellow in his grave;
than now in first seeing he had proved himself a
It stands your grace upon to do him right.
O good but most unwise patricians! why,
Would feed on one another? What's their seeking?
This is a strange repose, to be asleep
three but jumps twelve foot and a half by the squier.
Hard-favour'd Richard? Richard, where art thou?
I would appeach him.
The king! why, who's that?
To carve out dials quaintly, point by point,
Whose tongue?
Messenger:
Enjoy the kingdom after my decease.
DUKE OF YORK:
Am I a lord? and have I such a lady?
Dares stir a wing, if Warwick shake his bells.
Put them in secret holds, both Barnardine and Claudio:
Sith 'twas my fault to give the people scope,
Which with sweet water nightly I will dew,
Unhappy Claudio! wretched Isabel!
But the plain devil and dissembling looks,
GLOUCESTER:
I know him well: you are welcome for his sake.
That may convey my greetings, love, to thee.
Up with my tent there! here will I lie tonight;
Whene'er we come to our account.
Hath not been used to fear. Even now I tremble
His plate, his goods, his money and his lands.
DUKE OF YORK:
A pair of tribunes that have rack'd for Rome,
Sweet peace conduct his sweet soul to the bosom
It is his highness' pleasure that the queen
I take my leave of you.
Talk not, Signior Gremio: I say he shall go to prison.
KATHARINA:
But that I was a journeyman to grief?
you are reverend grave men, yet they lie deadly that
So will I, Signior Gremio: but a word, I pray.
KING RICHARD II:
Consenting to the safeguard of your honour,
Within my mouth you have engaol'd my tongue,
Romeo is banish'd; and all the world to nothing,
He's beat from his best ward.
Ay, hand from hand, my love, and heart from heart.
whose hand, she being now at hand, thou shalt soon
Strike the drum.
First Musician:
My intercession likewise steads my foe.
To the discontented members, the mutinous parts
You are welcome all.
And satisfy the deputy with the visage
But hast thou done thy errand to Baptista?
For we were subjects but while you were king.
While you, sweet dear, prove mistress of my heart!
Where should she be? How oddly thou repliest!
Forbear awhile; we'll hear a little more.
Nor is't directly laid to thee, the death
I would you rather had been silent. Please you
But repetition of what thou hast marr'd;
Even that, I hope, which pleaseth God above,
His dignity and duty both cast off--
The fault's your own.
'Twere deadly sickness or else present death.
And cruel death hath catch'd it from my sight!
Runs posting on in Bolingbroke's proud joy,
Then strike up drums: God and Saint George for us!
A virtuous and a Christian-like conclusion,
The senate, Coriolanus, are well pleased
Than die for this.
It is, such crimson tempest should bedrench
QUEEN ELIZABETH:
Look you speak justly.
Then let me die, for now thou hast no cause.
And he shall think that thou, which know'st the way
Unless it be whilst some tormenting dream
As if we had them not. Spirits are not finely touch'd
Ha! Marcius coming home!
As doth the blushing discontented sun
NATHANIEL:
Look, how this ring encompasseth finger.
That I have been thus pleasant with you both.
Good king of cats, nothing but one of your nine
That, being a stranger in this city here,
SEBASTIAN:
Is he not like thee? is he not thine own?
Even with the dearest blood your bodies bear.
And, mutually participate, did minister
Once more, adieu: be valiant, and speed well!
O Buckingham, now do I play the touch,
CORIOLANUS:
I cannot speak, nor think
But whether 'twas the coldness of the king,
That shall you know hereafter.
I humbly beseech you, sir, to pardon me all the
Nor in a way so chaste, since my desires
Which ten times faster glide than the sun's beams,
Will raise us all.
Messenger:
As thou dost swallow up this good king's blood
This peace is nothing, but to rust iron, increase
This fester'd joint cut off, the rest rest sound;
Tell him from me that he hath done me wrong,
In Jove's own book, like an unnatural dam
LADY ANNE:
We shall be much unfurnished for this time.
The slaughter of the prince that owed that crown,
And must she die for this? O, let her live,
And joy that thou becomest King Henry's friend.
But nature makes that mean: so, over that art
offence, Claudio?
With fame, a name to Caius Marcius; these
What is't o'clock?
I humbly thank you.
In troops I have dispersed them 'bout the isle.
And be a happy mother by the deed.
That babies lulls asleep! the smiles of knaves
Did will what he did spend and spent not that
Come hither, nurse. What is yond gentleman?
Of happy holding her.
To most ignoble stooping.
Well said, master; mum! and gaze your fill.
DUKE VINCENTIO:
Last longer telling than thy kindness' date.
This was my speech, and I will speak't again--
I have known my husband; yet my husband
too, and suffer every knave to use me at his pleasure?
As is a winged messenger of heaven
Still neighbour mine. My ships are ready and
Cancel his bond of life, dear God, I prey,
Than we to stretch it out.
But who comes here? the new-deliver'd Hastings?
Wherein I seem unnatural: desire not
Saw'st thou the melancholy Lord Northumberland?
KING RICHARD III:
Stand all apart Cousin of Buckingham!
It is: may it be done?
Are not these large enough?
Thus yields the cedar to the axe's edge,
DUKE VINCENTIO:
Why, thou say'st true; it is a paltry cap,
God shield I should disturb devotion!
Make haste, make haste.
To loss and what may follow! Weep I cannot,
Nay, temperately; your promise.
May drop upon his kingdom and devour
First Murderer:
Dear my brother,
She was too good for me: but, as I said,
Which contradicts my accusation and
So meet for this great errand. Please your ladyship
Re-purchased with the blood of enemies.
Welcome, sweet prince, to London, to your chamber.
see, there is such unity in the proofs. The mantle
And may you prove, sir, master of your art!
My fair Bianca, bid my father welcome,
How I persuaded, how I pray'd, and kneel'd,
You look as if you held a brow of much distraction
Calls not your counsels, but our natural goodness
O, 'tis an accident that heaven provides!
HORTENSIO:
QUEEN ELIZABETH:
As deep as that, though true.
Came I to take her from her kindred's vault;
Rosaline; Livia; Signior Valentio and his cousin
In many singularities; but we saw not
are amazed; but this shall absolutely resolve you.
And therefore I'll uncrown him ere't be long.'
Come, come, you have been too rough, something
How now! what news with you?
DUKE VINCENTIO:
What sin you do to save a brother's life,
nutmegs, seven; a race or two of ginger, but that I
Upon them! victory sits on our helms.
Give me a torch: I am not for this ambling;
And so it is received. Now, pious sir,
Second Murderer:
Ay, as the glasses where they view themselves;
Lest you be cropp'd before you come to prime.
CAIUS MARCIUS CORIOLANUS! Bear
But, like a thrifty goddess, she determines
But in the balance of great Bolingbroke,
That thou attend me: thou dost here usurp
Her dowery wealthy, and of worthy birth;
Your ignorant election; enforce his pride,
All in gore-blood; I swounded at the sight.
Though they themselves did suffer by't, behold
in studs, and here and there pieced with packthread.
You make my bonds still greater.
We can: my royal liege,
In execution.
One fairer than my love! the all-seeing sun
PETRUCHIO:
Let's make the best of it.
Give you good morrow, sir.
No, my good Lord; he hath forsook the court,
My soul the father; and these two beget
This day should Clarence closely be mew'd up,
with man, woman, or child.
Mine boy? not till King Henry be dead.
Ay, if you come not in the blood of others,
Do ebb and flow with tears; the bark thy body is,
Cut me to pieces, Volsces; men and lads,
chains: no hearing, no feeling, but my sir's song,
Let's ha't, good Grumio.
And, madam,
Turn all to the best! These proclamations,
That warns my old age to a sepulchre.
Breathe you, my friends: well fought;
The statue is but newly fix'd, the colour's Not dry.
What noise is here?
Or as the south to the septentrion.
Ha! let me see her: out, alas! she's cold:
trimmed, rushes strewed, cobwebs swept; the
Kin to Jove's thunder, so surprised my sense.
Raised only, that the weaker sort may wish
And give them friendly welcome every one:
Thy tempest-tossed body. How now, wife!
Yet show some pity.
I mean, sir, in delay
If you shall chance, Camillo, to visit Bohemia, on
To know our further pleasure in this case,
Which with a bounteous hand was kindly lent;
And, by that knot, looks proudly o'er the crown,
With whom the Kentishmen will willingly rise:
His good sword in his hand.
Belike the elder; Clarence will have the younger.
The pleasure that some fathers feed upon,
And pluck it o'er your brows, muffle your face,
Good my lord,
For King of England shalt thou be proclaim'd
his wounds and tell us his deeds, we are to put our
Who told me, in the field by Tewksbury
Read o'er the volume of young Paris' face,
Come, sir, come, we know you well enough.
Edward, my lord, your son, our king, is dead.
PETRUCHIO:
Of that wide gap, since it is in my power
I tell you, 'tis incredible to believe
A villain that is hither come in spite,
A due sincerity govern'd his deeds,
Great hurt and mischief; thereto witness may
That winter should cut off our spring-time so.
What is the city but the people?
Thus play I in one person many people,
And topping all others in boasting.
Why, madam, have I offer'd love for this
Here comes his servant: how now, Catesby,
Awaked you not with this sore agony?
Your country's fat shall pay your pains the hire;
Counting myself but bad till I be best.
Come, lay aside your stitchery; I must have you play
We will ourself in person to this war:
How now, Catesby, what says your lord?
Each part, deprived of supple government,
Or else new form'd 'em; having both the key
I shall, sir. Fare you well.
But since it would not, he had none of me.
With oily painting. Shall I draw the curtain?
Than one condemn'd by the king's own mouth, thereon
Will take again your queen as yours at first,
Or bitterly to speak in your reproof.
The wretched, bloody, and usurping boar,
to you: so you may continue and laugh at
GLOUCESTER:
And thou and Romeo press one heavy bier!
Though death be poor, it ends a mortal woe.
What a strange drowsiness possesses them!
Dine with my father, drink a health to me;
We'll all assist you; he that flies shall die.
So soon to bid good morrow to thy bed:
Our doubts are traitors
I do beweep to many simple gulls
My charity is outrage, life my shame
The general is my lover: I have been
You shall have wine enough, my lord, anon.
Peace, you mumbling fool!
God bless your grace! we see it, and will say it.
So shall you bind me to your highness' service.
To bate me a full year.
Crowns in my purse I have and goods at home,
O, let me make the period to my curse!
And sent to warn them to his royal presence.
Pardon me, madam: little joy have I
Yet, as we may, we'll meet both thee and Warwick.
Be call'd your vanquisher.
Then, Pompey, nor now. What news abroad, friar?
knowledge be more it is much darkened in your malice.
But only seeing, all other circumstances
Second Herald:
FRIAR LAURENCE:
And more inconstant than the wind, who wooes
Why, that's my fortune too; therefore I'll stay.
What counsel give you? whither shall we fly?
An earnest advocate to plead for him.
Shall bring Emilia forth.
Farewell, my gracious lord; I'll to my castle.
Dicky your boy, that with his grumbling voice
Save our deposed bodies to the ground?
I do present you with a man of mine,
Ah, gentle Clifford, kill me with thy sword,
My father's loss, the weakness which I feel,
Do you hear, sir? To leave frivolous circumstances,
Was it more precious to me than 'tis now:
For it is done, my lord.
To Juliet's grave; for there must I use thee.
Come hither, Bess, and let me kiss my boy.
Must by us both be spent most preciously.
And to my state grew stranger, being transported
Have too much blood in him.
Having no warrant.
Here love; thou see'st how diligent I am
What must I say?
Whom now I keep in service. Thou best know'st
Than curse it then. But be it; let it live.
Ah, sirs, consider, he that set you on
That makes his opening with this bigger key:
But presently prevent the ways to wail.
Which he not dreams of.
As well as speak--it tauntingly replied
With soft low tongue and lowly courtesy,
That fair for which love groan'd for and would die,
our guests? 'tis well they are whispering: clamour
Death lies on her like an untimely frost
Third Servingman:
The truth of this appear. Prepare you, lords;
He would not call me son.
Poor thing, condemn'd to loss!
Second Citizen:
Though angel on the outward side!
And the nobility of Rome are his:
Will ever after droop. Here cease more questions:
Come, bring forth the prisoners.
If thou be there, sweet brother, take my hand.
those things you found about her, those secret
thee, Kate:
This is a merry ballad, but a very pretty one.
These times of woe afford no time to woo.
And this brave fellow too, we are the grains:
ears grew to his tunes.
Wert thou the Hector
KING HENRY VI:
Somewhat against our meaning, have prevented:
Sir, are not you my father?
It is a bitter deputy.
And when I mount, alive may I not light,
What is thy name? and wherefore comest thou hither,
Hark, how the villain would close now, after his
Being nothing like the noble duke my father:
Lie there, my art. Wipe thou thine eyes; have comfort.
Prepare thy battle early in the morning,
Go muster men; but, hear you, leave behind
He'll be hang'd yet,
That e'er was heard or read!
consent to die this day, that's certain.
QUEEN MARGARET:
And were the king on't, what would I do?
As is the osprey to the fish, who takes it
Too proud to be so valiant.
Then I degraded you from being king,
Which if thou please to hide in this true bosom.
Lament till I am lost.
sir, I would prove--
He chides to hell and bids the other grow
beholder, that knew no more but seeing, could not
Teach not thy lips such scorn, for they were made
If the event o' the journey
they list.
Tranio, let's go: one thing more rests, that
And with my child my joys are buried.
Come away, servant, come. I am ready now.
Marry, my child, early next Thursday morn,
Vouchsafe, at our request, to stand aside,
Good masters, take it not unkindly, pray,
He is both king and Duke of Lancaster;
Side-stitches that shall pen thy breath up; urchins
feeling of thy speech: I will, out of thine own
For his designs crave haste, his haste good hope:
BUCKINGHAM:
call upon you.
The truth you speak doth lack some gentleness
Of this hard world, my ragged prison walls,
When as the noble Duke of York was slain,
What's he that follows there, that would not dance?
More pity that the eagle should be mew'd,
Betid to any creature in the vessel
this quarrel.
For common justice, you're as pregnant in
Sirrah, what made your master in this place?
Good night, good night! parting is such
Now is the day we long have looked for:
Friar, not I I have been drinking hard all night,
GLOUCESTER:
Second Watchman:
Make your best haste, and go not
My lord, the mind of Bolingbroke is changed:
And for this once my will shall stand for law.
Since presently your souls must part your bodies--
Hastings, and Edward's children, Rivers, Grey,
Is it not yours?
Ay, the heads of the maids, or their maidenheads;
Thy mother felt more than a mother's pain,
Ne'er spurr'd their coursers at the trumpet's sound;
Hadst thou been meek, our title still had slept;
Within whose circuit is Elysium
The stomach of my sense. Would I had never
KING EDWARD IV:
Rather rejoicing to see another merry, than merry at
Makes the survivor heir of all.
Her vestal livery is but sick and green
I'll send him certain word of my success.
Second Servingman:
That horse that I so carefully have dress'd!
Come, go along, and see the truth hereof;
My heart will sigh when I miscall it so,
Bring him his confessor, let him be prepared;
Ay, so I fear; the more is my unrest.
O, no more, no more!
But, tell me, is young George Stanley living?
Come on, bawd; I will instruct thee in my trade; follow.
QUEEN MARGARET:
From our faults, as faults from seeming, free!
To come to Padua. Know you not the cause?
Why, how now, Kate! I hope thou art not mad:
Amen, amen.
Sith that the justice of your title to him
QUEEN ELIZABETH:
Trow you whither I am going? To Baptista Minola.
'Tis now near night.
Have holp to make this rescue?
Show them the unaching scars which I should hide,
Good Captain Blunt, bear my good-night to him,
Draw forth thy weapon, we are beset with thieves;
No, I'll not rear
For do we must what force will have us do.
Not out of doors!
The collars of the moonshine's watery beams,
O heinous, strong and bold conspiracy!
You have told me too many of him already, sir, if
Stands tiptoe on the misty mountain tops.
Say yea to thy desires. A thousand welcomes!
Have they been merry! which their keepers call
Be sometime honour'd for his burning throne!
As wealth is burden of my wooing dance,
LADY ANNE:
LADY CAPULET:
pipe; no, the bagpipe could not move you: he sings
festival purses; and had not the old man come in
And yet go current from suspicion!
Your grace, we think, should soonest know his mind.
Let them not cease, but with a din confused
Three times to-day my foot-cloth horse did stumble,
Impairing Henry, strengthening misproud York,
That prosperously I have attempted and
That in a Christian climate souls refined
DUKE VINCENTIO:
wager, first begins to crow?
To purge herself with words: dispatch.
As I seem now. Their transformations
Upon the stroke of ten.
There is a world elsewhere.
Heavens grant that Warwick's words bewitch him not!
A book of prayers on their pillow lay;
I beg for justice, which thou, prince, must give;
But what, o' God's name, doth become of this?
DUKE VINCENTIO:
KATHARINA:
I hear thou must, and nothing may prorogue it,
This is the cause that I, poor Margaret,
And tell 's a tale.
And prince shall follow with a fresh supply.
For every inch of woman in the world,
If you do fight against your country's foes,
Which he counts but a trifle.
The king shall be contented: must he lose
Was I then to you!
If Marcius should be join'd with Volscians,--
Of necessary fitness?
Take up the sword again, or take up me.
Shall here inhabit, and this land be call'd
On the fore-finger of an alderman,
And when came George from Burgundy to England?
How fondly dost thou spur a forward horse!
GLOUCESTER:
This is thy sheath;
And towards London they do bend their course,
DUKE OF AUMERLE:
and wouldst adventure
Thou must be made immortal. Where's Barnardine?
would not: drunk many times a day, if not many days
To gnaw their garners. Worshipful mutiners,
fantasticoes; these new tuners of accents! 'By Jesu,
Being a murderer, though he were my brother.
Speak and look back, and pry on every side,
And none of them been worn; and, for a name,
But now thy beauty is proposed my fee,
Go, see him out at gates, and follow him,
She's not well married that lives married long;
Are come to play a pleasant comedy;
the very stream of his life and the business he hath
And, gallant Warwick, do but answer this:
THOMAS MOWBRAY:
In very good time: speak not you to him till we
Suspecting that we both were in a house
Will thither straight, for willingness rids way;
Our tradesmen with in their shops and going
Thy word is current with him for my death,
From our free person she should be confined,
Fiend, thou torment'st me ere I come to hell!
With profits of the mind, study and fast.
KING RICHARD II:
Outlive thy glory, like my wretched self!
Give me excuse, good madam; I will obey you in every
So shall you quietly enjoy your hope,
If you do free your children from the sword,
country than one voluptuously surfeit out of action.
But where unbruised youth with unstuff'd brain
Then set before my face the Lord Aumerle.
He prettily and aptly taunts himself:
And make conceive a bark of baser kind
Than dangerous to me: to Aufidius thus
And two Northumberlands; two braver men
The testimony on my part no other
Falsely to take away a life true made
QUEEN MARGARET:
And in this borrow'd likeness of shrunk death
Ill blows the wind that profits nobody.
As if they vow'd some league inviolable:
Devised impeachments to imprison him :
Nor no man's lord; I have no name, no title,
Your king and Warwick's, and must have my will.
So 'tis said, sir; about his son, that should have
I am too mean a subject for thy wrath:
GLOUCESTER:
Thou shalt be master, Tranio, in my stead,
And wash him fresh again with true-love tears.
Farewell, good friar: I prithee, pray for me. The
This is to feel a tale, not to hear a tale.
And that we have a curse in having her:
Even to their ships.
Which, of he or Adrian, for a good
Bootless are plaints, and cureless are my wounds;
QUEEN MARGARET:
You, sirrah, provide your block and your axe
And by that loss your daughter is made queen.
wicked varlet, now, what's come upon thee: thou art
Environed he was with many foes,
I am too sure of it: and it is for getting Madam
Is Lewis so brave? belike he thinks me Henry.
FRIAR LAURENCE:
QUEEN MARGARET:
When the devout religion of mine eye
Thy grandfather, Roger Mortimer, Earl of March:
Lives like a drunken sailor on a mast,
I do not sleep: I see, I hear, I speak;
To scorn at our solemnity this night.
He that is giddy thinks the world turns round.
PETRUCHIO:
Tincture or lustre in her lip, her eye,
As gentle and as jocund as to jest
He that is strucken blind cannot forget
Come, let us to our holy task again.
What, household stuff?
We call a nettle but a nettle and
Bring your army; but, I think, you'll find
I am the youngest of that name, for fault of a worse.
Say, wast thou e'er contracted to this woman?
KING RICHARD III:
By what? by any other house or person?
Or thee? or thee? or any of your faction?
How it goes with us, and do look to know
To such abhorr'd pollution.
I'll prove the contrary, if you'll hear me speak.
Is prisoner to the foe; his state usurp'd,
Howe'er you lean to the nayward.
DUKE VINCENTIO:
Nay, gentlemen, prepare not to be gone;
You have deserved nobly of your country, and you
We cannot without circumstance descry.
We'll show thee Io as she was a maid,
of remorse in me.
Herein your highness wrongs both them and me.
Had I more name for badness.
Being once perfected how to grant suits,
To find out right with wrong, it may not be;
Say that the king, which may command, entreats.
Though he does bear some signs of me, yet you
Second Servingman:
Such eyes the widows in Corioli wear,
Vincetino's son brought up in Florence
And blister you all o'er!
And now to London with triumphant march,
Were of an age: well, Susan is with God;
And most desire should meet the blow of justice;
To watch the night in storms, the day in cold,
Not truly in their hearts, but in their eyes.
KATHARINA:
Spur post, and get before him to the king,
Well, somewhat we must do. Come, cousin, I'll
What, with five thousand men?
Of either, madam.
you from dishonour in doing it.
Where is this fellow?
And I expressly am forbid to touch it,
First Murderer:
As those that feed grow full, as blossoming time
To please the king I did; to please myself
Aufidius, and you Volsces, mark; for we'll
Fear me not.
The tiger will be mild whiles she doth mourn;
Accursed and unquiet wrangling days,
Now must the world point at poor Katharina,
Bid them repair to the market place; where I,
AUTOLYCUS:
The tempter or the tempted, who sins most?
Clubs, bills, and partisans! strike! beat them down!
me quivers. Scurvy knave! Pray you, sir, a word:
At Southam I did leave him with his forces,
For yesternight by Catesby was it brought me;
Quick proceeders, marry! Now, tell me, I pray,
A better witness back than words, which we,
Commune with you of this, but rather follow
O God, O God! that e'er this tongue of mine,
Hail, lords! I am return'd your soldier,
Go hence; good night; and here stands all your state:
So many greedy looks of young and old
'Tis a spell, you see, of much power: you know the
That I should yet absent me from your bed:
Which finds it an inforced pilgrimage.
Dispatch, my lord; the duke would be at dinner:
There weep and leave it crying; and, for the babe
GLOUCESTER:
If to have done the thing you gave in charge
I should not think it strange; for 'tis a physic
For what doth cherish weeds but gentle air?
And then deny her aiding hand therein,
QUEEN MARGARET:
Marry, go before to field, he'll be your follower;
So my untruth had not provoked him to it,
As maids call medlars, when they laugh alone.
Give me that mattock and the wrenching iron.
For in a quarrel since I came ashore
Give the all-hail to thee and cry 'Be blest
WESTMORELAND:
Comest thou because the anointed king is hence?
Fall to them as you find your stomach serves you;
Men give like gods; but when they weep and kneel,
Now welcome more, and ten times more beloved,
Making them women of good carriage:
three neat-herds, three swine-herds, that have made
He, more incensed against your majesty
And, whilst we breathe, take time to do him dead.
Nor forward of revenge, though they much err'd:
in him than there is milk in a male tiger; that
Though he be merry, yet withal he's honest.
Shall fly out of itself: nor sleep nor sanctuary,
Many a morning hath he there been seen,
Now, sir, come on: what was done to Elbow's wife, once more?
Ah, Gaunt, his blood was thine! that bed, that womb,
No, I'll die here.
Hark how I'll bribe you: good my lord, turn back.
Why, very well, then; I hope here be truths.
Though thou speak'st truth,
And therefore let me be thus bold with you
And yet not many.
'Tis good; though music oft hath such a charm
My business, sir, is to the king.
KING EDWARD IV:
And, for the good report I hear of you
To seek him here that means not to be found.
If they were his assistants, yea or no;
What! I, that kill'd her husband and his father,
One of the prettiest touches of all and that which
No impediment between, but that you must
Shamest thou not, knowing whence thou art extraught,
That sets them on: let me have way, my lord,
Put we our quarrel to the will of heaven;
The sons of Edward sleep in Abraham's bosom,
For doubtless Burgundy will yield him help,
HORTENSIO:
May walk again: if such thing be, thy mother
Or let us stand to our authority,
To her, Kate!
York and young Rutland could not satisfy.
I come to bring him sleep. 'Tis such as you,
Frenchwoman.
And in the stocks avouch it.
A god on earth thou art.
violent and unruly. Go you to Angelo; answer his
I have too much believed mine own suspicion:
When with his knees he kiss'd the Cretan strand.
Where having nothing, nothing can he lose.
The Welshmen are dispersed, and Salisbury
Every man's conscience is a thousand swords,
To lose his head; condemn'd by Angelo:
Gentle Mercutio, put thy rapier up.
Shall kin with kin and kind with kind confound;
Why, sir, you know this is your wedding-day:
I am a-weary, give me leave awhile:
called, my young lady asked for, the nurse cursed in
To make coals cheap,--a noble memory!
Is this the man that you did tell us of?
Cursed the blood that let this blood from hence!
To scarlet indignation and bedew
Of any point in't shall not only be
Great Lord of Warwick, if we should recount
An angry arm against His minister.
I'll have no bigger: this doth fit the time,
But in what nature?
What, no attendance? no regard? no duty?
In what enormity is Marcius poor in, that you two
From all the impure blots and stains thereof;
KING RICHARD III:
Seize thee that list: if once I find thee ranging,
But I shall live, my lord, to give them thanks
I hope he is much grown since last I saw him.
Of my child's love: I think she will be ruled
KING RICHARD II:
Stab poniards in our flesh till all were told,
But faults so countenanced, that the strong statutes
Sir, go you in; and, madam, go with him;
I will with you, if you be so contented,
Noble prince,
What hast thou found?
That thou hast done me; therefore turn and draw.
Your resolution cannot hold, when 'tis
Hear me speak:
And favour of the climate. As by strange fortune
Come, come, dispatch; 'tis bootless to exclaim.
Bidding the law make court'sy to their will:
This is desperate, sir.
I will not sleep, Hortensio, till I see her;
Please you to accept it, that the queen is spotless
Things past redress are now with me past care.
Which He hath given for fence impregnable,
That dreamers often lie.
That, as I am a Christian faithful man,
together, and fast it fairly out: our cakes dough on
Here's one to a very doleful tune, how a usurer's
FRIAR PETER:
He hath deserved worthily of his country: and his
Because your lordship was proclaimed traitor.
Let be, let be.
Hold up before him?
Throng our large temples with the shows of peace,
By the vow of mine order I warrant you, if my
That you might still have worn the petticoat,
For dainties are all Kates, and therefore, Kate,
Unless Plantagenet, Duke of York, be king,
KATHARINA:
To counsel me to make my peace with God,
Ah, would she break from hence, that this my body
'lady, lady, lady.'
But for some other reasons, my grave sir,
If he be slain, say 'I'; or if not, no:
He made you for a highway to my bed;
commanded out of the chamber; only this methought I
I came to talk of. Tell me, daughter Juliet,
And why, my lady wisdom? hold your tongue,
Like a rich jewel in an Ethiope's ear;
Mangles true judgment and bereaves the state
A private whisper, no, not with such friends
BUCKINGHAM:
To such a greeting: villain am I none;
At unawares may beat down Edward's guard
To-morrow night look that thou lie alone;
KING EDWARD IV:
Die in his youth by like untimely violence!
I have kept it myself; and see how he goes about to abuse me!
is young; and, therefore, if you should deal double
Go hence, to have more talk of these sad things;
For what offence?
He bade me say so--more than all the sceptres
FRANCISCA:
To meet me at the consecrated fount
Why, so I did; but look'd for no reply.
Help, help! Call help.
Gold were as good as twenty orators,
O king, believe not this hard-hearted man!
Bear him to the rock Tarpeian, and from thence
I did but smile till now:
But I say there is no hope in't: our throats are
And she as much in love, her means much less
HORTENSIO:
To be full like me: yet they say we are
Thank me no thankings, nor, proud me no prouds,
Having some business, do entreat her eyes
Ay, but he's dead: off with the traitor's head,
Say, by this token, I desire his company
And in devotion spend my latter days,
HENRY BOLINGBROKE:
Lest she should be denied.
Hear from me still, and never of me aught
POLIXENES:
Let noble Warwick, Cobham, and the rest,
That shows thee a weak slave; for the weakest goes
Have struck more terror to the soul of Richard
CORIOLANUS:
not drowned i' the last rain, ha? What sayest
To quicken your increase, I will beget
down. They say this Angelo was not made by man and
What, art thou waking?
Well said: follow me this jest now till thou hast
Or else you like not of my company.
DUKE VINCENTIO:
It was my folly; if industriously
Mark you this, people?
DUKE VINCENTIO:
Thou sing'st sweet music. Hark, come hither, Tyrrel
Did keep ten thousand men? was this the face
Immaculate devotion, holy thoughts,
Now will I in, to take some privy order,
with the gallows and what with poverty, I am
NORTHUMBERLAND:
Comes hunting this way to disport himself.
Are to a wise man ports and happy havens.
In this so never-needed help, yet do not
For Richard, in the view of many lords,
Thus, with his speechless hand: what he would do,
How now, Abhorson? what's the news with you?
Betroth'd and would have married her perforce
A jewel in a ten-times-barr'd-up chest
My master is grown quarrelsome. I should knock
I pray you, uncle, give me this dagger.
Not light them for themselves; for if our virtues
an he had stayed by him, I would not have been so
As it was won with blood, lost be it so!
Ere this rude beast will profit.
More than thy fame and envy. Fix thy foot.
Till then fair hope must hinder life's decay.
Why stops my lord, shall I not hear my task?
Pink for flower.
Heaven grant us its peace, but not the King of
I am sorry for't:
O my most gracious lord,
may find the young Romeo?
For on that ground I'll build a holy descant:
You, my lords,
Is not a dukedom, sir, a goodly gift?
Shalt waft them over with our royal fleet.
Fool, of thyself speak well: fool, do not flatter.
well enough too? what barm can your bisson
Grandam, we can; for my good uncle Gloucester
First Citizen:
O, full of danger is the Duke of Gloucester!
It shall be seven ere I go to horse:
Your highness shall repose you at the Tower:
What curious eye doth quote deformities?
When first I did embrace him: yet his nature
And bid her dry her weeping eyes therewith.
Lord Mayor:
Off with that bauble, throw it under-foot.
He breathes, my lord. Were he not warm'd with ale,
Thanks, gentle Norfolk: stay by me, my lords;
Proceed in practise with my younger daughter;
To see my friends in Padua, but of all
I would your duty were as foolish too:
pennyworth on his side be the worst, yet hold thee,
No man knows whither.
By virtue specially to be achieved.
But now I'll tell thee joyful tidings, girl.
Our treasures seized, our soldiers put to flight,
That his soul sicken not.
KING HENRY VI:
Now, by my George, my garter, and my crown,--
Sister, farewell; I must to Coventry:
Even when you please, since you will have it so.
That thinks with oaths to face the matter out.
displeasure of the people is as bad as that which he
You'll think it strange if I should marry her.
Yet, if my lord will marry,--if you will, sir,
My husband bids me; now I will unmask.
And send the hearers weeping to their beds:
in private;
Your guest, then, madam:
But do you hear, sir? have you married my daughter
Why looks your grace so heavily today?
If thou art fickle, what dost thou with him.
At the hour of nine.
I say, a husband.
Your grace hath still been famed for virtuous;
Within the infant rind of this small flower
This is the palace of the fearful king,
Is by the stern Lord Clifford done to death.
Pardon me, noble lord:
Accuse him home and home. For my poor self,
Numbering our Ave-Maries with our beads?
Swell'st thou, proud heart? I'll give thee scope to beat,
How may likeness made in crimes,
And strays about to find 'em.
The Lords of Ross, Beaumond, and Willoughby,
As she that he hath stain'd?
To tame a shrew and charm her chattering tongue.
A warrant for his execution.
You that durst swear at your mistress Bianca
This neighbour air, and let rich music's tongue
KATHARINA:
But what likelihood is in that?
To signify thou camest to bite the world:
Thou cacodemon! there thy kingdom is.
Let's be no stoics nor no stocks, I pray;
For 'tis thy presence that exhales this blood
QUEEN MARGARET:
Ready to catch each other by the throat,
Thy mother's name is ominous to children.
To prison, eyes, ne'er look on liberty!
And him he play'd it for, he needs will be
Than words can witness, or your thoughts can guess.
Lay hands upon him.
From giving reins and spurs to my free speech;
Are smother'd up, leads fill'd, and ridges horsed
Prithee, peace.
Anon comes one with light to ope the tomb;
Alack, what trouble
Of my boy's face, methoughts I did recoil
As that the villain lives which slaughter'd him.
But say, I pray, what nobleman is that
I shall not sleep in quiet at the Tower.
trust it will grow to a most prosperous perfection.
For, well I wot, thou hast thy mother's tongue.
Without more mercy, to its own protection
She shall be habited as it becomes
VINCENTIO:
How now, my masters! have you chose this man?
I count myself in nothing else so happy
Yet this good comfort bring I to your grace,
They tend the crown, yet still with me they stay.
Might there not be a charity in sin
When you and I met at Saint Alban's last,
I'll leave my son my virtuous deeds behind;
For this reason, if you'll know,
HENRY PERCY:
First Servingman:
With speedy help doth lend redress.'
Which in your outward actions shows itself
They have chose a consul that will from them take
'Fore your queen died, she was more worth such gazes
I will seem friendly, as thou hast advised me.
May hang upon your hardness: therefore hear us.
Action is eloquence, and the eyes of the ignorant
Worthy enough a herdsman: yea, him too,
KATHARINA:
Draws the sweet infant breath of gentle sleep;
Why, 'tis not amiss, Pompey. Farewell: go, say I
Let's all sink with the king.
Love, charity, obedience, and true duty!
And look'd upon things precious as they were
That love which virtue begs and virtue grants.
LADY CAPULET:
Ay, and a subtle; as he most learnedly delivered.
KING HENRY VI:
And, to say truth, Verona brags of him
Iron may hold with her, but never lutes.
SEBASTIAN:
That bear this mutual heavy load of moan,
Did you perceive
BUCKINGHAM:
And tread upon his neck.
KING RICHARD II:
Good morrow, neighbour Baptista.
No, my good lord; therefore be patient.
DUKE VINCENTIO:
Have almost stamp'd the leasing: therefore, fellow,
Came to my tent, and cried on victory:
BUCKINGHAM:
BUCKINGHAM:
That mercy does, for calumny will sear
Ere sun-rise, prayers from preserved souls,
Go, go, dispatch.
LORD WILLOUGHBY:
married a shepherd's daughter.
These high wild hills and rough uneven ways
And would have rent it. Another word, Menenius,
As if a man were author of himself
HORTENSIO:
KING RICHARD II:
Awhile to work, and after holiday.
DUCHESS OF YORK:
Why, then he will say we stabbed him sleeping.
To better vantage.
Not dropp'd down yet.
sitting, as I say, in a lower chair, sir; 'twas in
Thy beauty hath, and made them blind with weeping.
Give me my Romeo; and, when he shall die,
We render you the tenth, to be ta'en forth,
Believe me, this may be: he promised to meet me two
Masters of the people,
Now, by Saint Paul, this news is bad indeed.
'Lo, thus' quoth Dighton, 'lay those tender babes:'
One that, above all other strifes, contended
So do I too, if it be not too much: brings a'
If that be all, masters, I hear no harm.
SEBASTIAN:
You are too absolute;
You are pardon'd, Isabel:
And triumph, Henry, in thy day of doom.
Yet thus far fortune maketh us amends,
But makes one pardon strong.
I have left asleep; and for the rest o' the fleet
But death hath snatch'd my husband from mine arms,
Sound drums and trumpets! farewell sour annoy!
Well said, Hermione.
Care keeps his watch in every old man's eye,
Boatswain:
Marry, will I; and you shall help to put him i' the ground.
That brought thee to this world.
Are gone to Bolingbroke, dispersed and fled.
To prove the Duke of Norfolk, Thomas Mowbray,
A horse! a horse! my kingdom for a horse!
Six of his labours you'ld have done, and saved
And one whom much I honour.
I must up-fill this osier cage of ours
Therefore they thought it good you hear a play
Thou speak'st truth.
DUKE OF AUMERLE:
To thee I do commend my watchful soul,
To offer service to the Duke of Hereford,
Into his ruin'd ears, and thus deliver:
I have already.
Your kindness better.
the tyrant.
And would by combat make her good, so were I
QUEEN MARGARET:
KING RICHARD II:
Brother, we will proclaim you out of hand:
The friends of France our shrouds and tacklings?
DUKE OF YORK:
PRINCE EDWARD:
Upon my life, my lord, I'll under-take it;
From off the rock Tarpeian never more
Second Watchman:
Thou to me thy secrets tell.
I will not dine until I see the same.
But that still use of grief makes wild grief tame,
And dallies with the wind and scorns the sun.
Wherein my grandsire and my father sat?
Her eye, and tell me for what dull part in't
Three times did Richard make a lane to me.
And no worldly suit would he be moved,
To Mantua, with my letters to thy lord.
The sun that sear'd the wings of my sweet boy
Content. What is the wager?
And, by just computation of the time,
To bid the father wipe his eyes withal,
What service wilt thou do me, if I give them?
Mine own, nor any thing to any, if
Torment myself to catch the English crown:
In some large measure to thy father's death,
O sir, I do; and will repute you ever
No; if without more words you will get you hence.
No barricado for a belly; know't;
Sit with my cousin; lend him your kind pains
Ye are a baggage: the Slys are no rogues; look in
Go, get you to your house; be gone, away!
Watching breeds leanness, leanness is all gaunt:
What but to speak of would offend again.
What you have been ere now, and what you are;
Return, good Catesby, to thy lord again;
Bid them come near.
Thus stands the case: you know our king, my brother,
And hath bereft thee of thy life too late!
Is your man secret? Did you ne'er hear say,
toads carbonadoed.
There's no remedy;
But ne'er till now his scandal of retire.
That I disdain: but for these other gawds,
A whispering tale in a fair lady's ear,
A horse! a horse! my kingdom for a horse!
I take thee at thy word:
Will clear or end the business: when the oracle,
To do him good?
When this is known, then to divide the times:
the seaside, browsing of ivy. Good luck, an't be thy
She speaks this in the infirmity of sense.
content to say it was for his country he did it to
Scars to move laughter only.
Prefix'd by Angelo: see this be done,
CORIOLANUS:
A murrain on't! I took this for silver.
Thou hast neither heat, affection, limb, nor beauty,
That would reduce these bloody days again,
Is it new and old too? how may that be?
Let them go on;
What with him? he comes not
You are come to Sandal in a happy hour;
considered, as too much I cannot, to be more
For emulation now, who shall be nearest,
But purgatory, torture, hell itself.
I have seen and heard of; for your voices have
Romeo slew him, he slew Mercutio;
These eyes, that now are dimm'd with death's black veil,
To see this sight, it irks my very soul.
And I'll keep London with my soldiers.
And, Will you, nill you, I will marry you.
Most true, if ever truth were pregnant by
And cry 'O Clarence, my unhappy son!'
So smile the heavens upon this holy act,
Give Richard leave to live till Richard die?
When such a sacred king should hide his head.
No, mighty liege; therefore mistrust me not.
behind-door-work: they were warmer that got this
Though the nature of our quarrel yet never brooked
By holy marriage: when and where and how
This is as't should be. Let me see the county;
My lord, here comes the rascal I spoke of; here with
Touching that point.
BUCKINGHAM:
Which argued thee a most unloving father.
VINCENTIO:
You're welcome: what's your will?
these four threes of herdsmen.
The imperial metal, circling now thy brow,
And better 'twere you troubled him than France.
Well, he may chance to do some good on her:
Gramercies, Tranio, well dost thou advise.
From forth day's path and Titan's fiery wheels:
Golden Apollo, a poor humble swain,
Where he was to begin and give away
Forbear your conference with the noble duke.
Your children's children quit it in your age.
O Buckingham, take heed of yonder dog!
Full of wise care is this your counsel, madam.
GLOUCESTER:
Their talk at table, and their thanks at end;
Both Tribunes:
I came from Edward as ambassador,
From all dishonesty he can: in this,
Infer fair England's peace by this alliance.
Forbidden bandying in Verona streets:
Nor shall appear in Sicilia.
will be considered.
The sum of all I can, I have disclosed;
Though rebels wound thee with their horses' hoofs:
This same should be the voice of Friar John.
Your high displeasure: all this uttered
See you these clothes? say you see them not and
Go fetch him hither; let me look upon him.
Now is this golden crown like a deep well
For Venus smiles not in a house of tears.
Of sprites and goblins.
My tongue to such a pace:--'Look, sir, my wounds!
GLOUCESTER:
delivered the matter well, when I find the ass in
Your plainness and your shortness please me well.
he would show most love. When yet he was but
Lord Marshal:
Let's fetch him off, or make remain alike.
I know no further:
Is so possess'd with guilt: come from thy ward,
Rivers and Hastings, take each other's hand;
That thou commend it strangely to some place
KING RICHARD II:
The ordering of the mind too, 'mongst all colours
That love the fundamental part of state
What, not an oath? nay, then the world goes hard
LADY ANNE:
Bastards and all.
Listen to me, and if you speak me fair,
All The Lords:
PRINCE EDWARD:
I do mistake my person all this while:
Here's Romeo's man; we found him in the churchyard.
KING EDWARD IV:
Good heart, at what?
All which secure and sweetly he enjoys,
Thus have we swept suspicion from our seat
Master, has my fellow Tranio stolen your clothes? Or
Or by the father there were none at all;
There is no more but so: say it is done,
THOMAS MOWBRAY:
The common people swarm like summer flies;
And I am faint and cannot fly their fury:
So stinkingly depending? Go mend, go mend.
Tendering my person's safety, hath appointed
Unapt to toil and trouble in the world,
Nay, but thou shalt stay too: I would my son
High-reaching Buckingham grows circumspect.
More of him anon. There is written in your brow,
justice, sir, and do bring in here before your good
I am a poor fellow, sir.
And so did I.
Which for things true weeps things imaginary.
What Tranio did, myself enforced him to;
Who crown'd the gracious duke in high despite,
Clambering the walls to eye him: stalls, bulks, windows,
Dispatch; the limit of your lives is out.
daughters will be all gentlemen born.
With solemn reverence: throw away respect,
A merchant of great traffic through the world,
JOHN OF GAUNT:
False-boding woman, end thy frantic curse,
What further woe conspires against mine age?
Would I were dead! if God's good will were so;
I think thou hast the veriest shrew of all.
The hopeless word of 'never to return'
Fertile the isle, the temple much surpassing
KING RICHARD II:
When I have most need to employ a friend,
Nurse, commend me to thy lady and mistress. I
As to be cast forth in the common air,
I, that please some, try all, both joy and terror
That should be silent: if young Doricles
good, here's none will hold you. Their love is not
And you, good sir! Pray, have you not a daughter
The dignity of this act was worth the audience of
When I perceive your grace, like power divine,
For shame, thou helding of a devilish spirit,
Holy Franciscan friar! brother, ho!
my prayers; but I cannot go thither.
To the possession of thy royal hand:
The bay-trees in our country are all wither'd
And toil'd with works of war, retired himself
O child! O child! my soul, and not my child!
Then at my lodging, an it like you:
I have for the most part been aired abroad, I
Your right of birth, your empery, your own.
God's is the quarrel; for God's substitute,
If whilst I live she will be only mine.
Thus wisdom wishes to appear most bright
As words to little purpose.
Ere I could make thee open thy white hand
In Warwickshire I have true-hearted friends,
Ah, Warwick, why hast thou withdrawn thyself?
THOMAS MOWBRAY:
eye but such an eye would spy out such a quarrel?
I cannot tell; but I had as lief take her dowry with
master Vincentio! now we are undone and brought to nothing.
Patience perforce with wilful choler meeting
BUCKINGHAM:
Come, let us sup betimes, that afterwards
Where I may read who pass'd that passing fair?
And make, no doubt, us happy by his reign.
The law against it! But that her tender shame
Then hast thou taught Hortensio to be untoward.
KING RICHARD III:
I have been studying how I may compare
O pity, pity, gentle heaven, pity!
Second Capulet:
I would to God all strifes were well compounded.
But have been waked by his timorous dreams.
And, for my name of George begins with G,
'Tis thought that Richmond is their admiral;
And if I were thy nurse, thy tongue to teach,
Though heaven cannot: O Romeo, Romeo!
Than faults may shake our frames,--let me be bold;
Inquire me out some mean-born gentleman,
And bleat the one at the other: what we changed
Boatswain:
One seven-night longer.
My business is a word or two with Claudio.
When you curse them as enemies.
As I intend to thrive in this new world,
HENRY PERCY:
He was the wretched'st thing when he was young,
The people are the city.
God ye good morrow, gentlemen.
Yea, and much more: but I was born so high,
Good Peter, to hide her face; for her fan's the
Why, then, the champions are prepared, and stay
My gracious silence, hail!
That they of Rome are entered in our counsels
Art thou his father?
Who sets me else? by heaven, I'll throw at all:
What! this gentleman will out-talk us all.
The rest stand all aloof, and bark at him.
So like to him that got it, if thou hast
Commit them to the fire!
Who saw the sun to-day?
That we, the sons of brave Plantagenet,
Says that this deed is chronicled in hell.
therefore fire: do thy duty, and have thy duty; for
He did solicit you in free contempt
On some known ground of treachery in him?
Why, just, my lord, and that is Angelo,
A dozen years; within which space she died
Double and treble admonition, and still forfeit in
Give signal to the fight, and to it, lords!
Go thou to Juliet, help to deck up her;
My tears shall wipe away these bloody marks;
That modesty may more betray our sense
Doth not thy embassage belong to me,
Cry 'Welcome, ladies, welcome!'
First Senator:
Mounted upon a hot and fiery steed
Italian master, Julio Romano, who, had he himself
Unless thou tell me how I may prevent it:
Villain, thou know'st no law of God nor man:
behalf as you have uttered words in your own, you
That I must bear a part.
Pray you then,
a very good blade! a very tall man! a very good
Third Citizen:
With rigorous hands: he hath resisted law,
This day had plotted, in the council-house
Is lechery so look'd after?
First Senator:
He hath hereto prized them at.
Thou, being a king, blest with a goodly son,
QUEEN ELIZABETH:
news is old enough, yet it is every day's news. I
And thou mis-shapen Dick, I tell ye all
DUKE VINCENTIO:
And the dire death of my two sons and brothers?
He said the truth: and what said Surrey then?
In countenance! Heaven shield your grace from woe,
You will not pay for the glasses you have burst?
As those should do that had deserved his hate,
Our soldiers', like the night-owl's lazy flight,
That Romeo bid thee fetch?
That ne'er shall dine unless thou yield the crown.
When I shall gust it last. How came't, Camillo,
There is my purse to cure that blow of thine.
and is hanged betimes in the morning, may sleep the
'Tis full of thy foul wrongs.
Take on himself the sovereignty thereof:
As is the sepulchre in stubborn Jewry,
His arms in this sad knot.
Betwixt thy begging and my meditation.
As e'er I heard in madness.
Nothing so certain as your anchors, who
So that, betwixt their tides and low names,
That I revived, and was an emperor.
Now therefore let us hence; and lose no hour,
You may not so extenuate his offence
My lord,--
The lady stirs.
father; for the king's son took me by the hand, and
HORTENSIO:
Please your highness, posts
Armed in proof, and led by shallow Richmond.
our noble acceptance of them. Ingratitude is
In special business from his holiness.
As was your former; but she shall be such
If any think brave death outweighs bad life
DUCHESS OF YORK:
Longer or shorter, he may be so fitted
Tell me her father's name and 'tis enough;
Help not all, yet do they ease the heart.
It was an answer: how apply you this?
For shame, my liege, make them your precedent!
For thou exist'st on many a thousand grains
You are welcome, gentlemen! come, musicians, play.
Hath held his current and defiled himself!
With thousands of these quarter'd slaves, as high
Yet standing in rich place, I multiply
It beats as it would fall in twenty pieces.
I would the fool were married to her grave!
Cousin, stand forth, and look upon that man.
All Conspirators:
More fierce and more inexorable far
Of thee thyself and all thy complices,
So would you be again to Henry,
We may, sir, if we will.
Ay, sir; well, well.
What colour for my visitation shall I
Destroy'd his country, and his name remains
God will in justice ward you as his soldiers;
And hope to joy is little less in joy
First Citizen:
When she, poor hen, fond of no second brood,
And hang it round with all my wanton pictures:
Or rudely visit them in parts remote,
And loving farewell of our several friends.
As confident as is the falcon's flight
It is a man's voice. Gentle Isabella,
Let not my cold words here accuse my zeal:
We'll hear no more.
GLOUCESTER:
she's a changeling and none of your flesh and blood.
mummers; set up the bloody flag against all
White-liver'd runagate, what doth he there?
distant time stood, as it were, in a fruit-dish, a
They gave us our demands.' Thus we debase
Since we can not atone you, we shall see
Tut, man, one fire burns out another's burning,
Might I a son and daughter now have look'd on,
To speak with you; may it please you to come down.
The poorest service is repaid with thanks;
QUEEN MARGARET:
My legs can keep no measure in delight,
His business more material.
Heirs of your kingdoms, my poor house to visit,
For I myself have many tears to wash
I would say thou hadst suck'd wisdom from thy teat.
My gentle Marcius, worthy Caius, and
We can both sing it: if thou'lt bear a part, thou
New woo my queen, recall the good Camillo,
What impossible matter will he make easy next?
Though Marcius earned them not, and all his faults
I have no brother, I am like no brother;
Nor night nor day no rest: it is but weakness
Than when these fellows ran about the streets,
Thou setter up and plucker down of kings,
BIONDELLO:
That thieves do pass on thieves? 'Tis very pregnant,
Take hence the rest, and give them burial here.
GLOUCESTER:
Come, knock and enter; and no sooner in,
Should not produce fair issue.
KING RICHARD II:
The crown of England, father, which is yours.
I see thy glory like a shooting star
False accusation blush and tyranny
Like pleasant travellers, to break a jest
How couldst thou in a mile confound an hour,
From such a filthy vice: say to thyself,
When men are unprepared and look not for it.
Sir, this is the gentleman I told you of:
Therefore take with thee my most heavy curse;
Bring them to our embracement. Still, 'tis strange
For you, my noble Lord of Lancaster,
A shadow like an angel, with bright hair
Nor brass nor stone nor parchment bears not one,
First Musician:
Gentlemen, content ye; I am resolved:
Vex not yourself, nor strive not with your breath;
Through brazen trumpet send the breath of parley
that your senses, unintelligent of our insufficience,
In an odd angle of the isle and sitting,
What should it be, that they so shriek abroad?
You said that idle weeds are fast in growth
Thou'ldst not believe thy deeds: but I'll report it
Cannot but yield you forth to public thanks,
I'll have this knot knit up to-morrow morning.
are some brown, some black, some auburn, some bald,
And practise rhetoric in your common talk;
Which sorrow is always towards ourselves, not heaven,
Her blood is settled, and her joints are stiff;
DUKE OF AUMERLE:
Discharge my followers: let them hence away,
Do me this right; hear me with patience.
But 'banished' to kill me?--'banished'?
And all goes worse than I have power to tell.
And this shall seem, as partly 'tis, their own,
And to conclude, we have 'greed so well together,
CORIOLANUS:
Sir, we were talking that our garments seem now
I say, my lord, they have deserved death.
hedge and follow you.
Live each of you the subjects to his hate,
BIONDELLO:
HENRY BOLINGBROKE:
When time is broke and no proportion kept!
Accept of him, or else you do me wrong:
Your actions are my dreams;
CORIOLANUS:
Stamp, rave, and fret, that I may sing and dance.
And is it not well served in to a sweet goose?
Foul shame upon you! you have all moved mine.
Let's to the Capitol. Would half my wealth
I got possession of Julietta's bed:
I should not live long after I saw Richmond.
I weigh it lightly, were it heavier.
O, she says nothing, sir, but weeps and weeps;
Or, if his mind be writ, give me his letter.
Nor ope her lap to saint-seducing gold:
Content you, gentlemen: I will compound this strife:
sent to find those persons whose names are here
With tearful eyes add water to the sea
Good father, I beseech you on my knees,
I'll privily away. I love the people,
If that shepherd be not in hand-fast, let him fly:
KING RICHARD II:
For my poor brother's head.
false report of him.
This enemy town. I'll enter: if he slay me,
At war 'twixt will and will not.
My naked weapon is out: quarrel, I will back thee.
To lift shrewd steel against our golden crown,
She, I'll swear, hath corns; am I come near ye now?
I will be satisfied; let me see it, I say.
Unlawfully made drunk with innocents' blood!
look,--do you call, sir, your occupation a mystery?
That Anne, my wife, is sick and like to die:
If I could shake off but one seven years
Whiles lions war and battle for their dens,
Saints do not move, though grant for prayers' sake.
Pray, Master Barnardine, awake till you are
And by his rare example made the coward
First Citizen:
And hum at good Cominius, much unhearts me.
This oath I willingly take and will perform.
triumphantly tread on thy country's ruin,
My hand is ready; may it do him ease.
The very mercy of the law cries out
Upon a barren mountain and still winter
I speak from certainties. Nay, more,
Which in his greatest need will shrink from him.
Has spoken like a traitor, and shall answer
And bring along these rascal knaves with thee?
What with a torch! muffle me, night, awhile.
On pain to be found false and recreant,
So dear the love my people bore me, nor set
To do in slander. And to behold his sway,
Then Warwick disannuls great John of Gaunt,
And cheer his grace with quick and merry words.
I tell you, he does sit in gold, his eye
Did not the one deserve to have an heir?
But who comes here?
Alas, I blame you not; for you are mortal,
Things sweet to taste prove in digestion sour.
Music, awake her; strike!
Noble Aufidius,
to-morrow. By my troth, Isabel, I loved thy brother:
So part we sadly in this troublous world,
warm them. Now, were not I a little pot and soon
Indeed I would be consul.
A recreant and most degenerate traitor
she would sooner confess: perchance, publicly,
But nothing spake in warrant from himself.
I cannot nor I will not yield to you.
Therefore use none: let Romeo hence in haste,
The raven rook'd her on the chimney's top,
To have what we would have, we speak not what we mean:
Which else would put you to your fortune and
Come on, sit down: come on, and do your best
I mean for your particular,--you had not
I lost a couple, that 'twixt heaven and earth
I must confess your offer is the best;
GLOUCESTER:
And make me happy in your unity.
'Twere pity they should lose their father's lands.
QUEEN ELIZABETH:
And lies, and lies: there is my bond of faith,
For hateful deeds committed by myself!
Believe me, I speak as my understanding instructs me
My widow says, thus she conceives her tale.
And wander we to see thy honest son,
That nothing sung but death to us and ours:
QUEEN ELIZABETH:
That virtuous Lady Bona, thy fair sister,
Ghost of HASTINGS:
Until you see her die again; for then
That took away the match from Isabel,
POLIXENES:
We will not from the helm to sit and weep,
Well, bear you well in this new spring of time,
SEBASTIAN:
Will you undo yourselves?
Dispose of her
And when the hardiest warriors did retire,
Is mustering in his clouds on our behalf
O, I am slain!
Such friends as time in Padua shall beget.
Where it seems best unto your royal self.
'Tis that he sent me of the duke's return:
Gentlemen, will you go muster men?
And every hour more competitors
Woe above woe! grief more than common grief!
Upon the water as he'll stand and read
Affront his eye.
Good queen; I say good queen;
I would not wed her for a mine of gold.
Betwixt the prince and beggar: I have said
No, at a word, madam; indeed, I must not. I wish
DUCHESS OF YORK:
The secret mischiefs that I set abroach
And Peter Turph and Henry Pimpernell
Into the bowels of ungrateful Rome,
As if my brother lived: I partly think
All for our vantage. Then, in God's name, march:
Let him alone;
Dishonourable boy!
There, at your meet'st advantage of the time,
More quaint, more pleasing, nor more commendable:
Jove's Mercury, and herald for a king!
But I'll be hanged, sir, if he wear your livery:
And lead you even to death: meantime forbear,
The fiery Tybalt, with his sword prepared,
In God's name, what art thou?
A black day will it be to somebody. Ratcliff!
Where's Captain Margaret, to fence you now?
But shall I live in hope?
To dress thy meat myself and bring it thee:
Thou dotard! thou art woman-tired, unroosted
why, that's nothing; an he begin once, he'll rail in
Take my prayers with you.
Could not have made this peace.
In few, they hurried us aboard a bark,
If thou inclinest that way, thou art a coward,
Hath not our brother made a worthy choice?
wholesome, we might guess they relieved us humanely;
Whose haughty spirit, winged with desire,
They are inclined to do so.
After the prompter, for our entrance:
Properly ours.
With flowers of winter.
MISTRESS OVERDONE:
HORTENSIO:
GLOUCESTER:
Or that we would, against the form of law,
Yet not so wealthy as an English yeoman.
though absent, shook hands, as over a vast, and
town-armory, with a broken hilt, and chapeless;
I hate not you for her proud arrogance.
Leave off to wonder why I drew you hither,
I have served Prince Florizel and in my time
Shall thereby be the sweeter. Reason thus with life:
Come, make him stand upon this molehill here,
so to heart the banishment of that worthy
Even since it could speak, from an infant, freely
The waste is no whit lesser than thy land.
To use my lawful sword!
The gods grant them true!
Yes. Has he affections in him,
In dignity, and for the liberal arts
How now! which of your hips has the most profound sciatica?
Then fly. What, from myself? Great reason why:
By bud of nobler race: this is an art
We might recover all our loss again;
Now puts the drowsy and neglected act
I, like a child, will go by thy direction.
it should take joy
Forward, I pray, since we have come so far,
This earth shall have a feeling and these stones
BARNARDINE:
PETRUCHIO:
And most assured that he is a friend
DUKE VINCENTIO:
Mine eyes to sweat compassion. But, good sir,
Let him not die. My brother had but justice,
You may, I may not; you are yet unsworn.
to the sleeve-hand and the work about the square on't.
The thing I have forsworn to grant may never
Now is the sun upon the highmost hill
I doubt it not, sir; but you will curse your
It's nine o'clock.
My gracious lord, I come but for mine own.
Down, ladies; let us shame him with our knees.
And let it not displease thee, good Bianca,
You have brought
To save me from the danger that might come
Come on, i' God's name; once more toward our father's.
Seeking out Romeo, that did spit his body
A merrier day did never yet greet Rome,
KATHARINA:
Ask Marian Hacket, the fat ale-wife of Wincot, if
'Proud,' and 'I thank you,' and 'I thank you not;'
more in joy at first hearing he was a man-child
Approach, my Ariel, come.
SEBASTIAN:
It is my son, young Harry Percy,
Which sixteen winters cannot blow away,
And lean-look'd prophets whisper fearful change;
As I am now unhappy; which is more
And it in you more dreadful would have seem'd
So long as heaven and nature lengthens it.
If I say fine, cry 'Fine;' if death, cry 'Death.'
lent him visitation.
First Servingman:
I now repent I told the pursuivant
Being the right idea of your father,
Then, as the manner of our country is,
Not able to endure the sight of day,
Your honour with your form.
This man has marr'd his fortune.
HORTENSIO:
POLIXENES:
With what his valour did enrich his wit,
Then is your cause gone too. The duke's unjust,
To do me business in the veins o' the earth
DUKE OF AUMERLE:
Which we will second. When he lies along,
Mistake me not--to save my life, for if
For this new-married man approaching here,
KING HENRY VI:
Would not entreat for life?
GLOUCESTER:
KING RICHARD III:
Princes and noble lords,
Thy pains, Fitzwater, shall not be forgot;
There's not a grain of it the face to sweeten
O miserable thought! and more unlikely
For me, I'll not be gone till I please myself:
Than what you should, made you against the grain
'Tis sworn between us we shall ever strike
Lascivious metres, to whose venom sound
Give you all greetings that a king, at friend,
Because thy father Henry did usurp;
As I could pick my lance.
Right gracious lord, I cannot brook delay:
He dreamt to-night the boar had razed his helm:
Like a true friar. More reasons for this action
old mothy saddle and stirrups of no kindred;
Young Ned, for thee, thine uncles and myself
And let me have them very well perfumed
Thy father, or thy mother, nay, or both,
And all the rest revolted faction traitors?
KATHARINA:
Sir, you may thank yourself for this great loss,
Must needs appear offence.
honour two notorious benefactors.
Of holy reverence; who, I cannot learn.
To strut before a wanton ambling nymph;
As loath to lose him, not your father's death;
Lord hastings was to her for his delivery?
Therefore accept such kindness as I can.
Ay, my lord;
Although the print be little, the whole matter
AUTOLYCUS:
ANTIGONUS:
And every thing is left at six and seven.
You will have Gremio to keep you fair.
Remember Margaret was a prophetess.'
Too light for such a swain as you to catch;
The sun not yet thy sighs from heaven clears,
How if, when I am laid into the tomb,
Yet whether you accept our suit or no,
Boatswain!
With cloth of any colour.
and, he returning to break our necks, they respect not us.
We'll make foul weather with despised tears;
forswear him, or else we are all undone.
'Tis grace indeed.
Worthy Menenius Agrippa; one that hath always loved
Because she brought stone jugs and no seal'd quarts:
As dissolute as desperate; yet through both
Might you dispense with your leisure, I would by and
Hold out my horse, and I will first be there.
KATHARINA:
I have heard, sir, of such a man, who hath a
A sleeping potion; which so took effect
And call them pillars that will stand to us;
How accompanied?
Now, in good time!
KATHARINA:
From these our Henry lineally descends.
Apothecary:
Who wrought it with the king, and who perform'd
Myself to be a marvellous proper man.
When it hoars ere it be spent.
Call thither all the officers o' the town,
Than dogs that are as often beat for barking
Should be 'Remember mine.'
But kneels and holds up bands for fellowship,
KING RICHARD III:
This day those enemies are put to death,
My name is Thomas Mowbray, Duke of Norfolk;
KATHARINA:
Down with the Capulets! down with the Montagues!
No; I will to Ireland to his majesty.
We will descend and fold him in our arms.
Having my freedom, boast of nothing else
If he were putting to my house the brand
Before thy coming Lewis was Henry's friend.
I would they were barbarians--as they are,
Clifford, ask mercy and obtain no grace.
This is a happier and more comely time
undiscovered. But 'tis all one to me; for had I
A precious ring, a ring that I must use
Say not we brought it.
What scene of death hath Roscius now to act?
Let me embrace thee, sour adversity,
In heaps and piles of ruin.
Your eyes do menace me: why look you pale?
two of the house of the Montagues.
Ungovern'd youth, to wail it in their age;
I know it pleaseth neither of us well.
Costly apparel, tents, and canopies,
Or if it be, 'tis with false sorrow's eye,
The heavens do lour upon you for some ill;
DUKE OF YORK:
Prick'd from the lazy finger of a maid;
I'll hear you by and by.
In Italy, and her confederate arms,
In storm perpetual, could not move the gods
But, God he knows, thy share thereof is small:
Do not repent these things, for they are heavier
Because his fathers are more beautiful?
And this same needy man must sell it me.
To keep your great pretences veil'd till when
Such as it is, being tender, raw and young:
At large discoursed in this paper here.
KING HENRY VI:
And give him from me this most needful scroll.
That wash'd his father's fortunes forth of France,
Leave this faint puling and lament as I do,
ones; but they are most of them means and bases; but
And who shines now but Henry's enemies?
Nay, come away.
And that my fortune rubs against the bias.
I say thou liest, Camillo, and I hate thee,
Shine out, fair sun, till I have bought a glass,
His oath enrolled in the parliament;
DUCHESS OF YORK:
Did us but loving wrong.
No more of this; it does offend my heart:
That monthly changes in her circled orb,
Your soldiers use him as the grace 'fore meat,
KING RICHARD III:
From the dead blow of it. And you, enchantment.--
Richard loves Richard; that is, I am I.
KATHARINA:
And to transport him in the mind he is
QUEEN MARGARET:
Nightly she sings on yon pomegranate-tree:
Coriolanus in Corioli?
Come away; it is almost clear dawn.
You are a lover; borrow Cupid's wings,
So you must be the first that gives this sentence,
And over the chair of state, where now he sits,
With worms that are thy chamber-maids; O, here
Well, I must do't:
foul hill, my master riding behind my mistress,--
Thy broken faith hath made a prey for worms.
Then give me leave to read philosophy,
Why, how now, sons and brother! at a strife?
But trust me, gentleman, I'll prove more true
It burneth in the Capel's monument.
Clarence and Somerset both gone to Warwick!
What, would you have my weapon, little lord?
foot, you shall see, as I have said, great
And by the buried hand of warlike Gaunt,
Away towards Salisbury! while we reason here,
prison; and there's Madam Juliet.
In this the heaven figures some event.
Yea, noise? then I'll be brief. O happy dagger!
but even now. Whoa, ho, hoa!
An old Italian fox is not so kind, my boy.
Farewell, sweet masters both; I must be gone.
Pitchers have ears, and I have many servants:
DUKE VINCENTIO:
It blots thy beauty as frosts do bite the meads,
Who gave his blood to lime the stones together,
You have paid the heavens your function, and the
When men were fond, I smiled and wonder'd how.
That excellent grand tyrant of the earth,
QUEEN MARGARET:
Culling the principal of all the deer.
Of you that yet are well.
With a nuptial knot, if thou vouchsafe to grant
As she lived peerless,
Your belly's answer? What!
HENRY PERCY:
Of his bright passage to the occident.
My title's good, and better far than his.
Are you so formal, sir? well, I must wait,
My noble queen, let former grudges pass,
And therefore, personally I lay my claim
To catch my death with jaunting up and down!
Out of my files, his projects to accomplish,
And these, who often drown'd could never die,
In unknown fathoms, will I break my oath
But by bad courses may be understood
Tickling a parson's nose as a' lies asleep,
He lurch'd all swords of the garland. For this last,
Dull, unmindful villain,
Go, then my mother, to thy daughter go
Kept in my soul, and would not let it forth
A brand to the end o' the world.
I promise you, my soul is very jocund
QUEEN MARGARET:
We must talk in secret:--nurse, come back again;
CORIOLANUS:
Then patiently hear my impatience.
That's your device.
What, is my daughter gone to Friar Laurence?
Dorset your son, that with a fearful soul
And we of thee: so if the time thrust forth
Let me put in your minds, if you forget,
Give me assurance with some friendly vow,
Our baleful news, and at each word's deliverance
A carbuncle entire, as big as thou art,
You do him wrong, surely.
So shall no foot upon the churchyard tread,
And living too; for now his son is duke.
KATHARINA:
Cover your heads and mock not flesh and blood
Were as seven vials of his sacred blood,
I drew to part them: in the instant came
has letters from the general, wherein he gives my
QUEEN ELIZABETH:
Are at their beads, 'tis hard to draw them thence,
BRAKENBURY:
There is a vice that most I do abhor,
But in all places else your master Lucentio.
The hearts of men, they must perforce have melted
In dear employment: therefore hence, be gone:
Madam, yourself are not exempt in this,
By underhand corrupted foul injustice,
PETRUCHIO:
shall I be appointed hours; as though, belike, I
From what a torment I did free thee?
Till then, 'tis wisdom to conceal our meaning.
If ever you have spent time worse ere now;
Which we in justice cannot well deny,
Be his own carver and cut out his way,
Did grace our hollow parting with a tear.
Old John of Gaunt, time-honour'd Lancaster,
Under what title shall I woo for thee,
From Ravenspurgh haven before the gates of York,
mourners, and stay dinner.
With them forgive yourself.
For Clarence is well-spoken, and perhaps
O my accursed womb, the bed of death!
Have a tongue to doom my brother's death,
Sixscore fat oxen standing in my stalls,
Since you will buckle fortune on my back,
My Lady Grey his wife, Clarence, 'tis she
More than I seem, and less than I was born to:
He's not prepared for death. Even for our kitchens
Have not to do with him, beware of him;
PRINCE EDWARD:
And stay thy lady too that lives in thee,
Second Messenger:
Unsavoury news! but how made he escape?
SEBASTIAN:
Had time cohered with place or place with wishing,
O, wilt thou leave me so unsatisfied?
Nay, I do bear a brain:--but, as I said,
Loved as he loves himself: even now I met him
Never, O never shall I see more joy!
There is no other way but to tell the king
Sirrah, lead these gentlemen
Because so well I love Lucentio.
A single thing, as I am now, that wonders
Pleads he in earnest? look upon his face;
For me, the ransom of my bold attempt
Commend me to Lord William: tell him, Catesby,
nose for thy speeches?
Our Rome will cast upon thee.
Good Catesby, go, effect this business soundly.
KING EDWARD IV:
Some poison'd by their wives: some sleeping kill'd;
Sweet widow, by my state I swear to thee
QUEEN ELIZABETH:
But I shall grieve you to report the rest.
About a schoolmaster for the fair Bianca:
And if we be, how dare thy joints forget
in the chine; troubled with the lampass, infected
Why do we finger thus? I cannot rest
Where peremptory Warwick now remains:
Plantagenet, of thee and these thy sons,
KING EDWARD IV:
Follow thine enemy in a fiery gulf
So criminal and in such capital kind,
And not impute this yielding to light love,
The people in the street cry Romeo,
You rogue, I have been drinking all night; I am not
There is the man of my soul's hate, Aufidius,
O boy, thy father gave thee life too soon,
ingrateful injury; to report otherwise, were a
Ay, and their colours, often borne in France,
A little of that worthy work perform'd
I am none, by this good light.
Here sheathe thy sword, I'll pardon thee my death:
Commit'st thy anointed body to the cure
See thou deliver it to my lord and father.
him soundly, sir: well, was it fit for a servant to
LADY ANNE:
'Twere well for Kate and better for myself.
Crowd to his presence, where their untaught love
And given in earnest what I begg'd in jest.
Then bring me to their sights; I'll bear thy blame
Their kingdom's loss, my woful banishment,
For wise men say it is the wisest course.
What's in his heart; and that is there which looks
Defy them then, or else hold close thy lips.
Should we be silent and not speak, our raiment
Officious, and not valiant, you have shamed me
Ay, now methinks I hear great Warwick speak:
A name unmusical to the Volscians' ears,
By this at Daintry, with a puissant troop.
BIONDELLO:
was begot between two stock-fishes. But it is
That shall she, marry; I remember it well.
Green earthen pots, bladders and musty seeds,
With smiling plenty and fair prosperous days!
Away with it! come, let me have a bigger.
QUEEN ELIZABETH:
The one my duty owes; but my fair name,
Hath an aspect of intercession, which
And ample interchange of sweet discourse,
That dogs bark at me as I halt by them;
I could not send it,--here it is again,--
Both to defend himself and to approve
By thee, old Capulet, and Montague,
Redeem from broking pawn the blemish'd crown,
No longer session hold upon my shame,
No hare, sir; unless a hare, sir, in a lenten pie,
My care is loss of care, by old care done;
By yielding up thy body to my will;
Come, come, you wasp; i' faith, you are too angry.
To be acknowledged: thou a sceptre's heir,
I'll go to him, and undertake to bring him
Cry but 'Ay me!' pronounce but 'love' and 'dove;'
Mistress! what, mistress! Juliet! fast, I warrant her, she:
DUKE OF YORK:
The queen your mother, and your brother York,
Nay, if there be no remedy for it, but that you will
forth more islands.
Nay, good my lord, be not angry.
And, with thy hand, thy faith irrevocable,
Do you not smile at this, Lord Angelo?
Even of your mettle, of your very blood;
I, that have neither pity, love, nor fear.
Second Citizen:
Your beauty: which did haunt me in my sleep
Upon this island as a spy, to win it
How? thy wife?
BUCKINGHAM:
Were half to half the world by the ears and he.
What noise is this? Give me my long sword, ho!
To rouse thee from thy bed, there art thou dead:
Thy brother Edward, and thyself the sea
If you would seek us,
DUKE VINCENTIO:
Let one attend him with a silver basin
When we grow stronger, then we'll make our claim:
His noble cousin is right welcome hither;
Even at his feet to lay my arms and power,
With downright payment, show'd unto my father.
But whether they be ta'en or slain we hear not.
Love talks with better knowledge, and knowledge with
She hath not seen the change of fourteen years,
We see the wind sit sore upon our sails,
Here in the prison, father,
that my report: you, indeed, spoke so of him; and
FRIAR PETER:
Not possible.
And when the lion fawns upon the lamb,
For the mutable, rank-scented many, let them
Pluck up thy spirits; look cheerfully upon me.
Lives my sweet son?
To what tune pleased his ear; that now he was
As I intended, for it wrought on her
What thou shouldst be: the occasion speaks thee, and
How she holds up the neb, the bill to him!
Therefore, no dancing, girl; some other sport.
As like almost to Claudio as himself.
Lines of fair comfort and encouragement.
And like her most whose merit most shall be:
And I'll believe thee.
He is within, with two right reverend fathers,
See here these movers that do prize their hours
And how shall we continue Claudio,
And see where comes the breeder of my sorrow!
CORIOLANUS:
a thousand: he had some feeling of the sport: he
GLOUCESTER:
Made impudent with use of evil deeds,
Divided in their dire division,
Whose father slew my father, he shall die.
If what thou speak'st speak not of remedy.
O, that a mighty man of such descent,
O worthy duke,
And witness of the malice and displeasure
Come, come, you froward and unable worms!
That I do beg his life, if it be sin,
Sly, old Sly's son of Burtonheath, by birth a
And you will rather show our general louts
You'll make a mutiny among my guests!
For I have need of many orisons
Now you are heir, therefore enjoy it now:
Hath any well-advised friend proclaim'd
Such as he hath observed in noble ladies
Let heaven revenge; for I may never lift
For God he knows, and you may partly see,
Our Romeo hath not been in bed to-night.
And here she stands, touch her whoever dare;
Prodigious, and untimely brought to light,
Wotting no more than I, are ignorant.
A mighty man of Pisa; by report
Let them have scope: though what they do impart
Within this hour my man shall be with thee
your eyes so fast?
The gods, not the patricians, make it, and
By my regard, but kill'd none so. Camillo,--
AUTOLYCUS:
Revolving this will teach thee how to curse.
My lord Sebastian,
AUTOLYCUS:
Is, to determine of the coronation.
Whither wilt thou go? Take good Cominius
And indeed, sir, there are cozeners abroad;
There to give up their power. If you can, pace your wisdom
Only fair speech.
Who is it that hath died for this offence?
Call it so.
DUKE OF AUMERLE:
Courage! there will be pity taken on you: you that
That so I may, by this device, at least
That may be, sir, when I may be a wife.
Would blow you through and through.
For what is in this world but grief and woe?
My power? Alas, I doubt--
CORIOLANUS:
Harry, how fares your uncle?
Second Capulet:
Ne'er issued from his blood. Take my defiance!
I will away towards Barnet presently,
The man is noble and his fame folds-in
And frame my face to all occasions.
Your mind from feasting. Sooth, when I was young
But where is Kate? where is my lovely bride?
Like to a tenement or pelting farm:
I do believe thee:
Anchors on Isabel: Heaven in my mouth,
That every day under his household roof
Thou know'st our reasons urged upon the way;
KING HENRY VI:
Blown with the windy tempest of my heart,
O, that thou wouldst as well afford a grave
Ay, that he razed.
Did not go forth of us, 'twere all alike
Four lagging winters and four wanton springs
Forslow no longer, make we hence amain.
That honourable day shall ne'er be seen.
Have I not heard great ordnance in the field,
BARNARDINE:
AUTOLYCUS:
Imagine I have said farewell already.
I shall have more than you can dream of yet;
of my master's horse-tail till they kiss their
O, father, you'll know more of that hereafter.
CORIOLANUS:
Old Gaunt indeed, and gaunt in being old:
Where's Cotus? my master calls
PETRUCHIO:
And your affection not gone forth, I'll make you
I'll stay above the hill, so both may shoot.
I and ten thousand in this luckless realm
Prithee, no more: thou dost talk nothing to me.
Attending but the signal to begin.
gown for thy master's use!
The royal fool thou copest with,--
HORTENSIO:
Take heed; for he holds vengeance in his hands,
And there's for twitting me with perjury.
devotion than can render it him; and leaves
A bed-swerver, even as bad as those
Either for life or death, upon the earth
So much the more our carver's excellence;
Prosperity's the very bond of love,
I do beseech you, pardon me; I may not show it.
Hath sent a letter to his father's house.
Good Clarence, do; sweet Clarence, do thou do it.
Sirrah Grumio, go to your mistress;
Than you, unless you were a scholar, sir.
HENRY BOLINGBROKE:
I am in parliament pledge for his truth
Hungary's!
Since when, his oath is broke; for, as I hear,
Guess thou the rest; King Edward's friends must down,
BIONDELLO:
Laid to thy answer: but the last,--O lords,
To seek their fortunes farther than at home
'Tell him from me that he hath done me wrong,
Deny your asking: take your choice of those
I pray you do.
That wounds the unsisting postern with these strokes.
Lucentio's father is arrived in Padua,
Disbursed I duly to his highness' soldiers;
to the wall.
HENRY BOLINGBROKE:
And so, I take my leave, and thank you both.
And rails, and swears, and rates, that she, poor soul,
QUEEN MARGARET:
He thinks, nay, with all confidence he swears,
Now God in heaven bless thee! Hark you, sir.
Which now the loving haste of these our friends,
By so receiving a dishonour'd life
Nay Warwick, single out some other chase;
And watch your safety.
And then in post he came from Mantua
And who is England's king but great York's heir?
Mine own desert.
From your good queen.
the porter let in Susan Grindstone and Nell.
I know you'ld fain be gone. An officer!
if my brother wrought by my pity, it should not be
Speak but one rhyme, and I am satisfied;
What cursed foot wanders this way to-night,
To come at first when he doth send for her,
O honey nurse, what news?
You peasant swain! you whoreson malt-horse drudge!
Long live Gonzalo!
BIONDELLO:
I now name to you; and with speed so pace
She did corrupt frail nature with some bribe,
Name of mercy, when was this, boy?
As brings a thousand-fold more care to keep
Madam, so thrive I in my enterprise
Come the next Sabbath, and I will content you.
Madam, undress you and come now to bed.
She had; and would incense me
I know you are now, sir, a gentleman born.
For I had then laid wormwood to my dug,
Because I cannot flatter and speak fair,
From east, west, north and south: be it concluded,
And left thee but a very prey to time;
And he shall marry her: the nuptial finish'd,
As thus, to drop them still upon one place,
And say, what store of parting tears were shed?
Did I impale him with the regal crown?
For nothing can be ill, if she be well.
Messenger:
It shall go hard if Cambio go without her.
Intolerable, not to be endured!
Didst thou not hear me swear I would not do it?
NORTHUMBERLAND:
Kill, kill, kill, kill, kill him!
His act did not o'ertake his bad intent,
Messenger:
To mingle faith with him! Undone! undone!
Will apprehend you as his enemy.
meat, and yet thy head hath been beaten as addle as
And therefore cannot have the hearts to do it.
Second Messenger:
That you have ta'en a tardy sluggard here.
If the duke with the other dukes come not to
But my heart bleeds; and most accursed am I
Ah, whither shall I fly to 'scape their hands?
BISHOP OF ELY:
live, forget to drink after thee.
Marcius would have all from you; Marcius,
mine only son, and heir to the lands of me, Signior Vincentio.
A gentler judgment vanish'd from his lips,
Perhaps you have learned it without book: but, I
Shall stop or spur me. Have I done well?
First Senator:
What 'unjust'!
To royalize his blood I spilt mine own.
For such a wish! he was not born to shame:
And that my master slew him.
Who should have died when Claudio lost his head;
No marvel, my lord, though it affrighted you;
What then, sir?
Here in my house do him disparagement:
Inch-thick, knee-deep, o'er head and
When I have said, cry 'woe!' the queen, the queen,
I fear you not.
Second Citizen:
I have advertised him by secret means
Then fare you well, for I will hence again:
several tunes faster than you'll tell money; he
CORIOLANUS:
Was not my lord
HENRY BOLINGBROKE:
Where no priest shovels in dust. O cursed wretch,
Hold, Tybalt! good Mercutio!
names, your ages, of what having, breeding, and any
A jealous hood, a jealous hood!
Nor never needed that I should entreat,
Nothing but jollity. The gods themselves,
DUKE VINCENTIO:
And show'd thee all the qualities o' the isle,
Let it go; there's few or none will entertain it.
Bear her my true love's kiss; and so, farewell.
The nature of their crimes, that I may minister
Grossly grew captive to his honey words
She's not fourteen.
burrows, like conies after rain, and revel all with
That wrens make prey where eagles dare not perch:
Upon the company you overtake?
I thank thee: thou shalt not lose by it.
True, my good lord; I know you for no less.
And art thou yet to thy own soul so blind,
I mean to utter it, or both yourself and me
Antonio, my father, is deceased;
Could great men thunder
Hath not that honour in't it had; for where
Sin, death, and hell have set their marks on him,
By sight of what I have, your noble company.
See who it is: and, now the battle's ended,
Under this thick-grown brake we'll shroud ourselves;
Take from my mouth the wish of happy years:
Made prize and purchase of his lustful eye,
PETRUCHIO:
LADY ANNE:
if the old fantastical duke of dark corners had been
And then I came away.
And see you read no other lectures to her:
But sever'd in a pale clear-shining sky.
The which shall turn you to no further harm
For sweet discourses in our time to come.
Condemn'd upon the act of fornication
When time shall call him home from banishment,
Why should she live, to fill the world with words?
Distinguish form: so your sweet majesty,
First Gentleman:
My lord, dispatch; read o'er these articles.
My lord, I must confess I know this woman:
QUEEN ELIZABETH:
Makes him to send; that thereby he may gather
When the tongue's office should be prodigal
Dost thou attend me?
Is Edward your true king? for I were loath
KING RICHARD III:
The thwartings of your dispositions, if
Until your lordship came to see his death;
We, having now the best at Barnet field,
What fates impose, that men must needs abide;
For, by the honour of my parents, I
So soon forsaken? young men's love then lies
LADY GREY:
I know him for a man divine and holy;
And was embark'd to cross to Burgundy;
BUCKINGHAM:
SEBASTIAN:
To speak with Coriolanus.
I task the earth to the like, forsworn Aumerle;
Mistake not, uncle, further than you should.
fardel will make him scratch his beard.
The Earl of Pembroke keeps his regiment:
I'll write unto them and entreat them fair.
Come, come, he must not.
Some remedies for life.
Which I could fancy more than any other.
His coming hither hath no further scope
Attend upon Cominius to these wars.
DUKE VINCENTIO:
And, through the cranks and offices of man,
Have done, have done.
Until my mis-shaped trunk that bears this head
When scarce the blood was well wash'd from his hands
By giving the house of Lancaster leave to breathe,
Stay a little while.
My oil-dried lamp and time-bewasted light
Should she kneel down in mercy of this fact,
Hath pawn'd the Sicils and Jerusalem,
For so your doctors hold it very meet,
sometimes and tell her that Paris is the properer
You say that Edward is your brother's son:
And turns it to exile; there art thou happy:
Romeo can,
As if Olympus to a molehill should
He was convey'd by Richard Duke of Gloucester
Another dowry to another daughter,
And look you get a prayer-book in your hand,
No beast so fierce but knows some touch of pity.
The taming-school! what, is there such a place?
No, madam.
Pattern in himself to know,
What advocate hast thou to him?
The loss, the gain, the ordering on't, is all
I' the boldness of your speech.
All but the base.
Which they upon the adverse party want.
He hath good usage and great liberty,
And when she is froward, peevish, sullen, sour,
She is something before her time deliver'd.
I seem'd his follower, not partner, and
Give me his gage: lions make leopards tame.
From all the slaughters, wretch, that thou hast done!
PETRUCHIO:
Beat thou the drum, that it speak mournfully:
For what is he they follow? truly, gentlemen,
With what he would say, let him feel your sword,
Upon agreement from us to his liking,
Streaming the ensign of the Christian cross
To wish me wed to one half lunatic;
Why, say, fair queen, whence springs this deep despair?
On whom depending, their obedience fails
Under your sentence?
Thanks, provost, for thy care and secrecy:
One that gives out himself Prince Florizel,
fellow partner.
Supper is done, and we shall come too late.
Ay, fool; is that a shame? Note but this fool.
The prenzie Angelo!
For what I have I need not to repeat;
That any of these bolder vices wanted
What authority surfeits on would relieve us: if they
having in that perished vessel the dowry of his
FRIAR PETER:
I'll tell him what you say, my lord.
What late misfortune is befall'n King Edward?
What, are there no posts dispatch'd for Ireland?
The hand was fair before! I have put you out:
Would they were basilisks, to strike thee dead!
As 'twere retail'd to all posterity,
Yes, an't please you, sir.
Griefs of mine own lie heavy in my breast,
I'll take it as a peril to my soul,
Will he woo her? ay, or I'll hang her.
Those gracious words revive my drooping thoughts
And yielding to another when it blows,
And the buildings of my fancy: only
King Lewis, I here protest, in sight of heaven,
And all his lands and goods be confiscate.
If honour may be shrouded in a hearse,
I thank thee, master.
Gives me this instance: already he hath carried
First Watchman:
I have a heart as little apt as yours,
Did it to help thee to a better husband.
KING RICHARD III:
Even as a flattering dream or worthless fancy.
Have we no wine here?
And it mis-sheathed in my daughter's bosom!
Ere he would have hanged a man for the getting a
That is, because the traitor murderer lives.
Scorns to unsay what once it hath deliver'd.
Will you permit that I shall stand condemn'd
Of being tyrannous, since we so openly
Hath not so green, so quick, so fair an eye
To Bona, sister to the King of France.
Know you that Friar Lodowick that she speaks of?
As one unworthy all the former favours
Hear nothing from him.
And here comes Claudio's pardon.
Shall be my winding-sheet. Why faint you, lords?
Here did she fall a tear; here in this place
Or, if misfortune miss the first career,
As, deathmen, you have rid this sweet young prince!
That we may call it early by and by.
Through 'tis a saying, sir, not due to me.
I cannot name the disease; and it is caught
thou wilt quarrel with a man that hath a hair more,
An she agree, within her scope of choice
My birth-place hate I, and my love's upon
By the pattern of mine own thoughts I cut out
Against thy seat: both young and old rebel,
put me into this apparel.
In weightier things you'll say a beggar nay.
To banish him that struck more blows for Rome
And shall I have?
Third Conspirator:
O, that once more you knew but what you are!
I, even I: what think you of it, madam?
And all the household servants fled with him
Art thou my calf?
So early walking did I see your son:
All seeing heaven, what a world is this!
I thank you, general;
The more I stay, the more I'll succor thee.
Of all the voices that we have procured
And keep their teeth clean.
To comfort thee, though thou art banished.
Say, Scroop, where lies our uncle with his power?
The roses in thy lips and cheeks shall fade
Set it down. Is ink and paper ready?
Even to Cato's wish, not fierce and terrible
Nay, I dare not swear it.
Or my true heart with treacherous revolt
Why dost thou stay?
If I should be! I had rather be a pedlar:
To season love, that of it doth not taste!
That you may know you shall not want, one word.
My love as deep; the more I give to thee,
Find in myself no pity to myself?
After our great good cheer. Pray you, sit down;
Commend me to my brother: soon at night
But neither my good word nor princely favour:
Add an immortal title to your crown!
Go see this rumourer whipp'd. It cannot be
Which must be even as swiftly follow'd as
Yourself, assisted with your honour'd friends,
So stands this squire
A boon, my sovereign, for my service done!
Split'st the unwedgeable and gnarled oak
Come, Warwick, take the time; kneel down, kneel down:
What from your grace I shall deliver to him.
You may be jogging whiles your boots are green;
Be bride to you, if you this assurance;
As I am made by my poor lord and thee!
I fly, Biondello: but they may chance to need thee
Well you deserve: they well deserve to have,
Where are thy tenants and thy followers?
You may, sir.
As thou hast power and person.
In proof whereof, there is my honour's pawn;
But empty lodgings and unfurnish'd walls,
And most opportune to our need I have
My child is yet a stranger in the world;
O, she that might have intercepted thee,
But I return his sworn and mortal foe:
For, till I see them here, by doubtful fear
You are sent for to the senate:
And 'twixt them rushes; underneath whose arm
Began to scold and raise up such a storm
Within this mile and half.
By false intelligence, or wrong surmise,
Left solely heir to all his lands and goods,
Of this most wise rebellion, thou go'st foremost:
Hasting to the court.
means to pay Bohemia the visitation which he justly owes him.
And, madam, you must call him Rutland now:
To know, when two authorities are up,
Rights by rights falter, strengths by strengths do fail.
Forbear to sleep the nights, and fast the days;
Subjects may challenge nothing of their sovereigns;
DUKE VINCENTIO:
Such as would please: 'tis gone, 'tis gone, 'tis gone:
Farewell, my liege. Now no way can I stray;
Can arbitrate this cause betwixt us twain;
Well, well; there's one yonder arrested and carried
the carpets laid, and every thing in order?
Thou detestable maw, thou womb of death,
Which traitor, thou wouldst have me answer to.
His ancient knot of dangerous adversaries
Why, master mayor, why stand you in a doubt?
I am ashamed that women are so simple
Lord Mayor:
Thou hast the strength of will to slay thyself,
You left poor Henry at the Bishop's palace,
Where your brave father breathed his latest gasp,
But let them measure us by what they will;
My wife to France: from whence, set forth in pomp,
I'll go along with you.
Tempering extremities with extreme sweet.
Out on you, owls! nothing but songs of death?
the sea, hold notwithstanding their freshness and
But that the sea, mounting to the welkin's cheek,
All for my master's sake, Lucentio.
Most wrongfully accused your substitute,
The exchange of thy love's faithful vow for mine.
PETRUCHIO:
Give me thy hand: Come.
He is no less than what we say he is.
So should we you, if you should be our king.
I think she'll sooner prove a soldier
I am a poor fellow, sir.
KING HENRY VI:
For me to try how: all I know of it
Till it o'er-run the stew; laws for all faults,
And lay aside my high blood's royalty,
And by the bright track of his fiery car,
And I for my escape have put on his;
Master lieutenant, now that God and friends
For Margaret my queen, and Clifford too,
Be York the next that must be bankrupt so!
But it proceeds or comes from them to you
Should say 'Be good to Rome,' they charged him even
Katharina, that cap of yours becomes you not:
I love thee not a jar o' the clock behind
And dangerous success of bloody wars,
Then move not, while my prayer's effect I take.
His cupbearer,--whom I from meaner form
Our city's institutions, and the terms
Exactly is perform'd: but there's more work.
The morning wears, 'tis time we were at church.
FERDINAND:
Is to become her husband and her father:
Now tell me, madam, do you love your children?
Which way ran he that kill'd Mercutio?
Or what is now received: I witness to
to any gentlewoman, and very weak dealing.
Which from the vineyard to the garden leads;
Who are they that complain unto the king,
I read that I profess, the Art to Love.
Holy Saint Francis, what a change is here!
she was of Carthage, not of Tunis.
Verona's summer hath not such a flower.
What's like to be their words: 'we did request it;
Flies may do this, but I from this must fly:
Your first is dead; or 'twere as good he were,
With whom I am accused, I do confess
Now, fellows, you are welcome.
That is, a woman; if you be more, you're none;
Lest his infection, being of catching nature,
You would have thought the very windows spake,
FRIAR LAURENCE:
Faith, there had been many great men that have
DUKE OF YORK:
What says he?
No, 'tis impossible he should escape,
Let us consult upon to-morrow's business
Then, good my lords, bear witness to his oath.
open't. What's within, boy?
SEBASTIAN:
We'll yoke together, like a double shadow
So it must fall out
Master Froth here, this very man, having eaten the
'Tis in reversion that I do possess;
Northumberland, I hold thee reverently.
LADY MONTAGUE:
And thine, Lord Clifford; and you both have vow'd revenge
Nor how to shroud yourself from enemies?
Our fair appointments may be well perused.
His master's son, as worshipful as he terms it,
LORD WILLOUGHBY:
Switch and spurs, switch and spurs; or I'll cry a match.
Which in the soldier is flat blasphemy.
Head, and butt! an hasty-witted body
I have some wounds upon me, and they smart
apparel fits your thief.
game of tick-tack. I'll to her.
Had I plantation of this isle, my lord,--
to her by oath, and the nuptial appointed: between
He calls for wine: 'A health!' quoth he, as if
And, by my troth, you have cause. You'll sup with me?
How tame, when men and women are alone,
And own no other function: each your doing,
And, might we lay the old proverb to your charge,
Ladies and maids their scarfs and handkerchers,
thou shouldst have heard how her horse fell and she
'Tis full three months since I did see him last;
Why, so hath this, both by the father and mother.
I am but sorry, not afeard; delay'd,
Fie, doff this habit, shame to your estate,
Is as a meeting of the petty gods,
My Lord Aumerle, I know your daring tongue
CORIOLANUS:
And, by thy guess, how nigh is Clarence now?
Seal'd up the doors, and would not let us forth;
Her silence flouts me, and I'll be revenged.
KING LEWIS XI:
That now you are come, you will be gone. Leave me
My lord, I claim your gift, my due by promise,
Which hoxes honesty behind, restraining
I know not what to do: I would to God,
O, very well; I have perused the note.
Myself I throw, dread sovereign, at thy foot.
Which way thou travellest: if along with us,
And he that hath commanded is the king.
your honour.
Messenger:
Which is the least?
But on thy side I may not be too forward
Thy dear love sworn but hollow perjury,
Drummer, strike up, and let us march away.
Saving your tale, Petruchio, I pray,
Lest child, child's children, cry against you woe!
No, pray thee.
Both tugging to be victors, breast to breast,
A Patrician:
Unto Bianca, fair and virtuous.
By cold gradation and well-balanced form,
Self against self: O, preposterous
I seal upon the lips of this sweet babe.
KING RICHARD III:
Which thou shalt thereby reap is such a name,
I' the end admire, where ladies shall be frighted,
By this one bloody trial of sharp war.
Did I let pass the abuse done to my niece?
FRIAR LAURENCE:
And slept above some fifteen year or more.
Make motion through my lips, and my arm'd knees,
with him, if thou standest not i' the state of
We two have sworn shall come.
Imparts this; which if you, or stupefied
He has the stamp of Marcius; and I have
Must these have voices, that can yield them now
I have stood by, my lord, and I have heard
Thanks, dear Isabel.
Is it more sin to wish me thus forsworn,
I'll leave her houses three or four as good,
complaint they have to the king concerns him
Besides I say and will in battle prove,
that you have said.
Or, seeing it, of such childish friendliness
I am thine.
To shrink mine arm up like a wither'd shrub;
The hazard of much blood.
Confound your hidden falsehood, and award
He's hearing of a cause; he will come straight
From the corruption of abusing times,
PETRUCHIO:
Come, lady, come. Farewell, my friend.
And mourn you for him: let him be regarded
And lo, where George of Clarence sweeps along,
DUKE VINCENTIO:
Himself with his good arms in lusty stroke
When great leaves fall, the winter is at hand;
This true which they so seem to fear. Go home,
why 'silver sound'? why 'music with her silver
subject, makes old hearts fresh: they that went on
Once more, on pain of death, all men depart.
I had rather be a country servant-maid
Yet camest thou to a morsel of this feast,
First, know, my horse is tired; my master and
Why dost thou spit at me?
face be better than any man's, yet his leg excels
I know it is the moon.
My tale provokes that question. Dear, they durst not,
Nor I; my spirits are nimble.
You do awake your faith. Then all stand still;
My queen and son are gone to France for aid;
And where care lodges, sleep will never lie;
An you be mine, I'll give you to my friend;
Appear in your impediment. For the dearth,
Where is the post that came from valiant Oxford?
The crown, usurp'd, disgraced his kingly glory.
Who for Bohemia bend, to signify
But self-affrighted tremble at his sin.
The crown imperial; lilies of all kinds,
Lo, now my glory smear'd in dust and blood!
That in submission will return to us:
With his mail'd hand then wiping, forth he goes,
These differences shall all rest under gage
Art thou my son?
The offence pardons itself. Dear Isabel,
Full fathom five thy father lies;
Hang him, Jack! Come, we'll in here; tarry for the
How blest am I
How long continued, and what stock he springs of,
But if you ever chance to have a child,
You would have bid me argue like a father.
Some say the lark makes sweet division;
My lord, I dare not: Sir Pierce of Exton, who
I say, a devil. Thinkest thou, Hortensio, though
Nor the prevention of poor Bolingbroke
Be left her to perform. Come, follow us;
Let me know the point.
When the sea is. Hence! What cares these roarers
How! no more!
And but one word with one of us? couple it with
CORIOLANUS:
But with his last attempt he wiped it out;
out of the house: prithee, call my master to him.
Know'st thou not any whom corrupting gold
As with a man busied about decrees:
indeed and sung lamentably.
DUKE VINCENTIO:
My gracious lord, I'll tell him what you say.
These both put by a poor petitioner,
When didst thou sleep when such a deed was done?
'Fair cousin'? I am greater than a king:
She hath had too much wrong; and I repent
I am question'd by my fears, of what may chance
Have you forgot the Duke of Hereford, boy?
How durst you, villains, bring it from the dresser,
They shall go forward, Kate, at thy command.
I play the torturer, by small and small
That thou return'st no greeting to thy friends?
That is, were I under the terms of death,
Will never do him good, not one of you.
Faith, here it is.
That you run mad, seeing that she is well:
But since you teach me how to flatter you,
To win a vulgar station: or veil'd dames
This is the way to kindle, not to quench.
Else might I think that Clarence, Edward's brother,
I'll make you quiet. What, cheerly, my hearts!
To Julius Caesar's ill-erected tower,
So is the dear'st o' the loss.
So happy is your brother.
A natural guiltiness such as is his,
An honourable husband. Come, Camillo,
Come to the pedlar;
For one commanding all, obey'd of none.
Their bands i' the vaward are the Antiates,
How! wear the garland! dost thou mean the crown?
eight. Will you pluck your sword out of his pitcher
If any of my kinsmen find thee here.
QUEEN MARGARET:
'Tis nothing less: conceit is still derived
'Sigeia tellus,' disguised thus to get your love;
For this affliction has a taste as sweet
And take her by the hand, whose worth and honesty
Ithaca full of moths. Come; I would your cambric
Which shows me mine changed too; for I must be
A grandam's name is little less in love
GLOUCESTER:
Say 'What is it your honour will command?'
And if he hear thee, thou wilt anger him.
Second Watchman:
And, in good time, here comes the noble duke.
Who having pinch'd a few and made them cry,
CORIOLANUS:
Is more to bread than stone: hence shall we see,
When you cast out, it still came home.
Here is the sister of the man condemn'd
NORTHUMBERLAND:
Noble lady!
Your lady's love against some other maid
Therefore I will not disdain.
I'll make a voyage to the Holy Land,
The glistering of this present, as my tale
What counsel, lords? Edward from Belgia,
Shall I speak ill of him that is my husband?
You heedless joltheads and unmanner'd slaves!
But shall all our houses of resort in the suburbs be
Confounds thy fame as whirlwinds shake fair buds,
To this most patient, sweet and virtuous wife:
Do as thou wilt, for I have done with thee.
Till then, adieu; and keep this holy kiss.
I can add colours to the chameleon,
DUKE OF AUMERLE:
Beseech your highness, give us better credit:
MISTRESS OVERDONE:
tapsters: they will draw you, Master Froth, and you
Nightly shall be to strew thy grave and weep.
Cousin, I am too young to be your father,
POLIXENES:
First Murderer:
Me and thy crying self.
He shall know you better, sir, if I may live to
Does Bridget paint still, Pompey, ha?
As breathed stags, ay, fleeter than the roe.
Here comes my son Aumerle.
And yet salt water blinds them not so much
Present our services to a fine new prince
end of the ship, to see how the sea flap-dragoned
GLOUCESTER:
This fair alliance quickly shall call home
be-rhyme her; Dido a dowdy; Cleopatra a gipsy;
Not so big as a round little worm
Hark, hark! I hear the minstrels play.
Than camels in the war, who have their provand
Sound drums and trumpets, and the king will fly.
Why, so he doth, now he delivers thee
I shall be loved when I am lack'd. Nay, mother.
What then?
Thou art like one of those fellows that when he
KING HENRY VI:
So he did, my lord:
Signior Baptista, of whom I hear so well.
Talkers are no good doers: be assured
O monstrous beast! how like a swine he lies!
Cast your election on him.
Here comes Baptista: set your countenance, sir.
Then 'tis but reason that I be released
Speakest thou from thy heart?
Yes; if there were no other excuse why they should
too little for your thief, your true man thinks it
But as the unthought-on accident is guilty
To load my she with knacks: I would have ransack'd
Your stinking greasy caps in hooting at
BUCKINGHAM:
As if the vicar meant to cozen him.
This orb o' the earth. His last offences to us
That he will give them make I as little question
If so your heart were touch'd with that remorse
I will bite thee by the ear for that jest.
Why, it contains no king?
Second Servingman:
If we be not, show us the hand of God
That blood already, like the pelican,
As signal that thou hear'st something approach.
Every true man's apparel fits your thief: if it be
And darts his light through every guilty hole,
Against the envy of less happier lands,
Still thus, and thus; still worse!
I dare meet Surrey in a wilderness,
Or here or elsewhere to the furthest verge
I mean, that with my soul I love thy daughter,
So much for that. Now for our Irish wars:
The seal'd-up oracle, by the hand deliver'd
And doleful dumps the mind oppress,
As old as Sibyl and as curst and shrewd
I'll pay that doctrine, or else die in debt.
But with that surname; a good memory,
Did scowl on gentle Richard; no man cried 'God save him!'
one, I hope I shall not be flayed out of it.
I will not go to-day; and ere I do,
Fated to the purpose did Antonio open
You have show'd a tender fatherly regard,
And very welcome. Look, signior, here's your sister.
And my pretext to strike at him admits
Indeed, 'tis true that Henry told me of;
My fortunes to your service, which are here
By any other name would smell as sweet;
Too early seen unknown, and known too late!
My voice is now the king's, my looks mine own.
the thanksgiving before meat, do relish the petition
DUKE VINCENTIO:
NORTHUMBERLAND:
'Gainst us, our state, our subjects, or our land.
Defiance to the traitor, and so die?
And think upon my bidding.
And now, instead of mounting barded steeds
I know my duty; you are all undutiful:
If it be honour in your wars to seem
During his power, go sleep.
As children from a bear, the Volsces shunning him:
Of who she but bid follow.
Speak that,--
My patience here is touch'd. I do perceive
His fault concludes but what the law should end,
Flattering me with impossibilities.
I shall report,
He has it now, and by his looks methink
Your multiplying spawn how can he flatter--
Whose house, whose bed, whose meal, and exercise,
Or whether he be 'scaped away or no
As infancy and grace. But yet, Paulina,
Out of the chamber with her! Were I a tyrant,
Here's such ado to make no stain a stain
PRINCE EDWARD:
And be inheritor of thy desire.
What's that to thee?
Why, Belman is as good as he, my lord;
You kill her double. Nay, present your hand:
KATHARINA:
Pluck'd four away.
Yet here Prince Edward stands, King Henry's son.
Ay, but thou usest to forswear thyself:
AUTOLYCUS:
That pierced the fearful hollow of thine ear;
Not in this heat, sir, now.
Please you, sir,
Why then it sorts, brave warriors, let's away.
For to a vision so apparent rumour
FRIAR LAURENCE:
And, by his soul, thou and thy house shall rue it.
Yea even my foes will shed fast-falling tears,
They never then had sprung like summer flies;
In this appeal as thou art all unjust;
grandsire, that we should be thus afflicted with
Masks for faces and for noses;
That Anne my wife is sick and like to die:
The gods forbid!
But Warwick's king is Edward's prisoner:
And, having France thy friend, thou shalt not dread
To die upon the bed my father died,
well knock'd at first, Then had not Grumio come by the worst.
'Tis passing good: I prithee let me have it.
Can pluck the diadem from faint Henry's head,
BIONDELLO:
It is, my lord.
cure of it not only saves your brother, but keeps
Why, 'tis good; it is the right of it; it must be
Frozen almost to death, how he did lap me
What sayest thou, Biondello?
I am content to be Lucentio,
But this I know, they have demean'd themselves
Rebell'd against the belly, thus accused it:
requiring with a plausible obedience; agree with
We did observe. Cousin Aumerle,
That most are willing. If any such be here--
First Servingman:
Speak suddenly, my lords, are we all friends?
I have so; because it is an open room and good for winter.
THOMAS MOWBRAY:
And the ear-deafening voice o' the oracle,
To instruct her fully in those sciences,
He is their god: he leads them like a thing
No; then he will say 'twas done cowardly, when he wakes.
This was so and no slumber. Dreams are toys:
Go to, then.
Fool, fool! thou whet'st a knife to kill thyself.
Accountant to the law upon that pain.
Where be the bending peers that flatter'd thee?
QUEEN ELIZABETH:
I will confess she was not Edward's daughter.
And more a friend than e'er an enemy;
As yet I do not: but, as I can learn,
take him to be a thief too, sir; for we have found
That is, her love; for that is all in all.
Were you well served, you would be taught your duty.
My traffic is sheets; when the kite builds, look to
DUKE VINCENTIO:
The drum your honour hears marcheth from Warwick.
They vented their complainings; which being answer'd,
KING RICHARD II:
KING RICHARD II:
Hoyday, a riddle! neither good nor bad!
Ay, millstones; as be lesson'd us to weep.
Bear the boy hence; he shall not come about her;
By your own true affections, and that your minds,
Farewell: the leisure and the fearful time
Shall point on me and gild my banishment.
NORTHUMBERLAND:
First Citizen:
What I have said, Bianca, get you in:
Draw, if you be men. Gregory, remember thy swashing blow.
He bear himself with honourable action,
Harp on that still--but by our putting on;
With as big heart as thou. Do as thou list
KING RICHARD III:
rebellion of a codpiece to take away the life of a
'Tis well thou art not fish; if thou hadst, thou
Is he won yet?
Further I say and further will maintain
Come hither, sirrah. Can you cut off a man's head?
virtues it was, but he was certainly whipped out of the court.
So triumph thieves upon their conquer'd booty;
And ride upon their backs; he trod the water,
Myself am struck in years, I must confess;
Spread further.
And crossly to thy good all fortune goes.
Dear sir, ere long I'll visit you again.
My breast can better brook thy dagger's point
What is this?
But see where Somerset and Clarence come!
And seem a saint, when most I play the devil.
After I have done what I promised?
As ever in ambitious strength I did
And that small model of the barren earth
Her life is only safest in her birth.
King Henry, be thy title right or wrong,
The king was slily finger'd from the deck!
So York may overlook the town of York.
I would thou hadst done so by Claudio.
To rid the realm of this pernicious blot?
But they can see a sort of traitors here.
Richard, I will create thee Duke of Gloucester,
PETRUCHIO:
Bestride my threshold. Why, thou Mars! I tell thee,
The mere effusion of thy proper loins,
From which awaked, the truth of what we are
Aumerle is guilty of my true appeal:
For 'twere no charity; yet, to wash your blood
But my arrival and my wife's in safety
Bootless is flight, they follow us with wings;
'Tis false.
O miserable lady! But, for me,
O thou untaught! what manners is in this?
What dogs are these! Where is the rascal cook?
Confess the truth, and say by whose advice
How stands your disposition to be married?
When you have done, repair to Crosby Place.
Henry had none, but did usurp the place;
KING RICHARD II:
Will but remember me what a deal of world
come to my ward; for thence will not I to-day.
O, pardon me, Signior Gremio; I would fain be doing.
KING RICHARD II:
And rack thee in their fancies.
That as Ulysses and stout Diomede
her father be very rich, any man is so very a fool
That dog, that had his teeth before his eyes,
I found the effect of love in idleness:
But toiling desperately to find it out,--
Will you give thanks, sweet Kate; or else shall I?
My crown is in my heart, not on my head;
And mock'd the dead bones that lay scatter'd by.
Be resident in men like one another
Than hath been taught by any of my trade:
Kate of Kate Hall, my super-dainty Kate,
Tell him, in hope he'll prove a widower shortly,
Dost thou not laugh?
Look in his youth to have him so cut off
Ah, sirrah, this unlook'd-for sport comes well.
And with their helps only defend ourselves;
BUCKINGHAM:
HENRY PERCY:
And then to have a wretched puling fool,
His youngest daughter, beautiful Binaca,
Who strongly hath set footing in this land:
Whom I proclaim a man of truth, of mercy;
scarce a maid westward but she sings it; 'tis in
me yare; for truly, sir, for your kindness I owe you
This is clean kam.
Let the high office and the honour go
Either of condemnation or approof;
And speak his very heart.
Given to the fire, a moiety of my rest
To cry to the sea that roar'd to us, to sigh
So season'd with your faithful love to me.
The hateful mansion.
The surge most swoln that met him; his bold head
Vienna ten year, I'll rent the fairest house in it
I mean, Hortensio is afeard of you.
She's an adulteress.
What, are you busy, ho? need you my help?
But, if thou be a king, where is thy crown?
HENRY BOLINGBROKE:
Heart-hardening spectacles; tell these sad women
It is, my lord.
Should, without eyes, see pathways to his will!
On twenty bloody blocks, he'ld yield them up,
And only that I stand for. I appeal
Wrecked the same instant of their master's death and
KATHARINA:
I'ld have you do it ever: when you sing,
Much more to be thus opposite with heaven,
And that you look'd for him this day in Padua.
Brother, I go; I'll win them, fear it not:
Speak truly, on thy knighthood and thy oath;
O lamentable day!
But what thou art, God, thou, and I do know;
No more than when my daughters call thee mother.
To give me secret harbour, hath a purpose
Boatswain:
He cares not for your weeping. Speak thou, boy:
Nor how to be contented with one wife,
but that our wits are so diversely coloured: and
Take all the swift advantage of the hours;
The instruments that feel.
as two and fifty horses: why, nothing comes amiss,
How can we aid you with our kindred tears?
O coward conscience, how dost thou afflict me!
And for our eyes do hate the dire aspect
Hath stopp'd the passage where thy words should enter.
Why that's my spirit!
For then she could stand alone; nay, by the rood,
Till storms be past of civil enmity.
One kiss shall stop our mouths, and dumbly part;
My child? away with't! Even thou, that hast
If it prove
Montague's men from the wall, and thrust his maids
Upon a wrong'd, I would fain have said, a maid!
For tender princes, use my babies well!
But this is something odd.
Which to preserve is sleep, which being spotted
aboard, tender your persons to his presence,
Were not so rich a jewel. Thou wast a soldier
To jump a body with a dangerous physic
Some of those seven are dried by nature's course,
Where's Bohemia? speak.
See, see! they join, embrace, and seem to kiss,
me to the gaol.
I'ld not have show'd it.
To deck his fortune with his virtuous deeds:
Fouler than heart can think thee, thou canst make
Lords, I protest, my soul is full of woe,
Since thou dost seek to kill my name in me,
fortune, by the saint whom I profess, I will plead
First Servingman:
This ague fit of fear is over-blown;
BUCKINGHAM:
Erroneous vassal! the great King of kings
hanging, yields a careful man work.
Praise her but for this her without-door form,
Interpretation should abuse and call this
were, durst not, look you, sir, show themselves, as
Why force you this?
As if it had lungs and rotten ones.
Yonder man is carried to prison.
besides, possessed with the glanders and like to mose
We are merely cheated of our lives by drunkards:
High-stomach'd are they both, and full of ire,
What doth our cousin lay to Mowbray's charge?
Have any resting for her true king's queen.
Sir, my liege,
I see thy grieved heart: thy sad aspect
Not only my success in Libya, sir,
These words hereafter thy tormentors be!
Not a soul
O Thou, whose captain I account myself,
AUTOLYCUS:
Myself in person will straight follow you.
God in thy good cause make thee prosperous!
And cowardly nobles, gave way unto your clusters,
This is my daughter's jointure, for no more
peradventure he shall ever return to have hearing of
I'll be supposed upon a book, his face is the worst
HORTENSIO:
LADY ANNE:
Small showers last long, but sudden storms are short;
Welcome, then.
Gentlemen, importune me no farther,
Seem to besiege and make his bold waves tremble,
In London streets, that coronation-day,
Hadst thou no poison mix'd, no sharp-ground knife,
For I myself will hunt this wolf to death.
AUTOLYCUS:
Art thou sure of this?
at home, he had lived.
Or with pale beggar-fear impeach my height
And yet shalt thou be safe? such safety finds
Return again, and take an oath with thee.
When Clifford cannot spare his friends an oath.
Which false hope lingers in extremity.
Alas, my liege, my wife is dead to-night;
'Tis a vile thing to die, my gracious lord,
O, they are at it!
I will withdraw: but this intrusion shall
My lord, he doth deny to come.
our Roman power: your lord and Titus Lartius are set
Petruchio, patience; I am Grumio's pledge:
Is numbering sands and drinking oceans dry:
O cunning enemy, that, to catch a saint,
Or else come after: I'll away before.
As my true service shall deserve your love.
Who calls so loud?
With wisdom I might fear, my Doricles,
Thou drown the sad remembrance of those wrongs
Make dust our paper and with rainy eyes
This is that banish'd haughty Montague,
As I did sleep under this yew-tree here,
Some patient leisure to excuse myself.
I have not been desirous of their wealth,
BISHOP OF ELY:
It shall be so.
Pray you, let's hear.
Of my kind uncle, that I know will give;
LADY CAPULET:
To sin's rebuke and my Creator's praise.
First Watchman:
Methinks I am a prophet new inspired
Leave us to cure this cause.
That, if King Lewis vouchsafe to furnish us
My Lord of York will still be cross in talk:
'Tear him to pieces.' 'Do it presently.' 'He kill'd
If at home, sir,
With those that have but little: this must be patch'd
Nay, let me have't; I long.
A servant grafted in my serious trust
Here comes his grace in person. My noble uncle!
Ay, my good lord; a very virtuous maid,
Those centuries to our aid: the rest will serve
The service of the foot
How fares my Kate? What, sweeting, all amort?
Senators, &C:
And why he left your court, the gods themselves,
Your discontenting father strive to qualify
Hark, hark!
For you shall hop without my custom, sir:
And pass my daughter a sufficient dower,
His burthenous taxations notwithstanding,
And thy no greater father.
Against the Duke of Norfolk, Thomas Mowbray?
And struck him on his knee: in that day's feats,
How canst thou woo her?
A noble Neapolitan, Gonzalo,
She moves me not, or not removes, at least,
Pardon, master;
But Hercules himself must yield to odds;
Ere a fortnight make me elder,
Which being shallow, you give me leave
I say it is the moon.
Either my eyesight fails, or thou look'st pale.
Confess who set thee up and pluck'd thee own,
Is it not more than shame to shame it so?
But since I cannot, be it known to you
That while Verona by that name is known,
And hither come in't: go, hence with diligence!
But as you shake off one to take another;
I see some sparks of better hope, which elder years
As when a giant dies.
Our fine musician groweth amorous.
Sweet Clifford, hear me speak before I die.
By playing it to me with so sour a face.
GLOUCESTER:
One fire drives out one fire; one nail, one nail;
Caesar? art thou led in triumph? What, is there
Being holiday, the beggar's shop is shut.
My dear wife's estimate, her womb's increase,
Therefore, good mother,--I must can you so--
PETRUCHIO:
So, Green, thou art the midwife to my woe,
But, as it seems, did violence on herself.
God make your majesty joyful as you have been!
I am sorry, one so learned and so wise
DUCHESS OF YORK:
CLEOMENES:
Norfolk, we must have knocks; ha! must we not?
ailest thou, man?
BALTHASAR:
For both of you are birds of selfsame feather.
My language! heavens!
Tribunes, give way; he shall to the market-place.
What is thy name?
Ye're long about it.
Of good Polixenes; and my ground to do't
Thou wilt amend thy life?
Or with the clamorous report of war
so long am I at the least. But wilt thou make a
BALTHASAR:
And make some pretty match with shedding tears?
For you must know, we have with special soul
Which mannerly devotion shows in this;
Despised, distressed, hated, martyr'd, kill'd!
Upon mine honour, thou shalt marry her.
One of our souls had wander'd in the air.
Your sense pursues not mine: either you are ignorant,
It best agrees with night. Come, civil night,
That I have borne your father?
That murder'd me: I would forget it fain;
O heavens! what stuff is here
So, slave; hence!
First Senator:
Yet can I not of such tame patience boast
The offences we have made you do we'll answer,
I will prove so, sir, to my power.
Ah, Juliet, I already know thy grief;
nothing undone that may fully discover him their
Give up your keys.
Find thou the means, and I'll find such a man.
Than he, and men, the earth, the heavens, and all:
I pray you stand good father to me now,
My part thereof that I have done to her.
That's a day longer than a wonder lasts.
And he shall be Vincentio of Pisa;
If that our noble father be alive?
Words against me? this is a good friar, belike!
Thou know'st the mask of night is on my face,
What! loss of some pitch'd battle against Warwick?
Than Prospero, master of a full poor cell,
To me for justice and rough chastisement;
All will be naught else.
Which he did end all his; and took some pride
And couple Clowder with the deep--mouth'd brach.
I call'd thee then vain flourish of my fortune;
To lay upon the damn'd, which Sycorax
AUTOLYCUS:
Tug for the time to come. This you may know
For half a hundred years. Summon the town.
PETRUCHIO:
DUKE OF YORK:
And then begin again, and stop again,
Well; the matter?
Will you buy any tape,
I saw his heart in 's face. Give me thy hand:
To-morrow's vengeance on the head of Richard.
You thus employ'd, I will go root away
To qualify in others: were he meal'd with that
I am thy sovereign.
Fellows in arms, and my most loving friends,
Whose chronicle thus writ: 'The man was noble,
You will not, then?
Persuades when speaking fails.
I promised to inquire carefully
Farewell, my coz.
When must he die?
POLIXENES:
I have no more to say, But bid Bianca farewell for
A nest of traitors!
KING EDWARD IV:
VINCENTIO:
hangs a tale.
Upon the wounds his body bears, which show
Now while I speak this, holds his wife by the arm,
Send her a story of thy noble acts;
Why, I, in this weak piping time of peace,
so: they are in a most warlike preparation, and
For bearing arms, for stirring up my subjects,
The odds for high and low's alike.
First Keeper:
And you tell me that he shall die for it.
The urging of that word 'judgment' hath bred a kind
Father, 'tis thus: yourself and all the world,
But he which bore my letter, Friar John,
How now, my headstrong! where have you been gadding?
Which made the fault that we cannot correct,
Keep your hundred pounds to yourself: he shall
From wayward sickness, and no grounded malice.
In what I further shall intend to do,
Farewell, our brother.
PETRUCHIO:
Wast born to bear? I was not made a horse;
Namely to appeal each other of high treason.
Some parcels of their power are forth already,
Should dying men flatter with those that live?
Now, if the help of Norfolk and myself,
Your friar is now your prince: as I was then
For they have pardons, being ask'd, as free
Of your fresh princess; o'er and o'er divides him
Of Naples and of Milan, what strange fish
And leave not one alive, I live in hell.
that thou wouldst discover if thou couldst, let him
And in my house you shall be friendly lodged:
And say'st thou yet that exile is not death?
LADY GREY:
Why, brother, wherefore stand you on nice points?
grace was said.
Abated captives to some nation
I pour the helpless balm of my poor eyes.
And fled, as he hears since, to Burgundy.
Made by some other deity than nature,
Even when the navel of the state was touch'd,
And bid me stand aloof, and so I did:
KING RICHARD III:
In these confusions. Heaven and yourself
AUTOLYCUS:
Your joys with like relation. Go together,
And wilt encounter with my wrath, say so;
DUKE VINCENTIO:
Turn you the key, and know his business of him;
Now, brother of Gloucester, Lord Hastings, and the rest,
PETRUCHIO:
How came we ashore?
To give thee all, and in his waning age
And these external manners of laments
lost my crupper, with many things of worthy memory,
O, you are novices! 'tis a world to see,
such dishes; they are not China dishes, but very
Messenger:
And thou unfit for any place but hell.
Than your good words. But who comes here?
What is become of Marcius?
As prisoners to her womanly persuasion.
GENTLEMEN:
Friar, thou knowest not the duke so well as I do:
A second course of fight.
Knowing I loved my books, he furnish'd me
Thou call'dst me king.
I would thou wert so happy by thy stay,
I must obey: his art is of such power,
DUKE VINCENTIO:
Wilt thou, O God, fly from such gentle lambs,
And then he sends you word
The gods look down, and this unnatural scene
acre of barren ground, long heath, brown furze, any
What simpleness is this! I come, I come!
QUEEN MARGARET:
No nightingale: look, love, what envious streaks
Is death to any he that utters them.
he hath faults, with surplus, to tire in repetition.
And therefore 'tis called a sensible tale: and this
should be hanged, I cannot imagine.
Courage, my masters! honour now or never!
This is a way to kill a wife with kindness;
Our Perdita is found.
What, by a horseman, or a footman?
The mathematics and the metaphysics,
Trust to't, thou shalt not--on thy mother's womb,
My lord, I know him; 'tis a meddling friar;
LADY ANNE:
Live, and thrive!
Provoked by him, you cannot--the great danger
I thought, by your readiness in the office, you had
Why have you not proclaim'd Northumberland
Make us thy ministers of chastisement,
Well, peace be with you, sir: here comes my man.
All The People:
For kissing, lady, not for such contempt.
First Soldier:
My lords, look where the sturdy rebel sits,
Whether for east or west: the dearth is great;
Behind the tuft of pines I met them; never
That the life-weary taker may fall dead
Get you hence instantly, and tell those friends,
Their watches on unto mine eyes, the outward watch,
Who having into truth, by telling of it,
Our guider, come; to the Roman camp conduct us.
A generation of still-breeding thoughts,
Noble Sebastian,
Why, I pray you?
To think our former state a happy dream;
To the people! Coriolanus, patience!
BRAKENBURY:
Stand more for number than for accompt.
saving your honour's reverence, for stewed prunes;
Or lace for your cape,
And gave him graceful posture.
What, ho! Abhorson! Where's Abhorson, there?
That we with smoking swords may march from hence,
The father rashly slaughter'd his own son,
And follow thee my lord throughout the world.
There's no more to be said, but he is banish'd,
If I may ever know thou dost but sigh
Call up Lord Stanley, bid him bring his power:
And he that got it, sentenced; a young man
Ourselves to be the slaves of chance and flies
KATHARINA:
The county will be here with music straight,
Madam, an hour before the worshipp'd sun
Wisely and slow; they stumble that run fast.
You bless me, gods!
And, sir, it is no little thing to make
If, Biondello, thou wert come ashore,
We have as many friends as enemies.
Without a sudden calm, will overset
Richard the second here was hack'd to death;
The provost knows our purpose and our plot.
The mouse ne'er shunn'd the cat as they did budge
Welcome my lord; I dance attendance here;
PETRUCHIO:
So that by this intelligence we learn
And learn this lesson, draw thy sword in right.
The winds of March with beauty; violets dim,
Had borne the business!'
So dissolute a crew.
What man thou art.
With a light heart; trust not my holy order,
Put not your worthy rage into your tongue;
My haste may not admit it;
Second Citizen:
constrains a man to bow in the hams.
KATHARINA:
Blister'd be thy tongue
Which is as thin of substance as the air
THOMAS MOWBRAY:
Ay me, I see the downfall of our house!
Most mighty prince, my Lord Northumberland,
And let the nurse this night sit up with you;
Uncase thee; take my colour'd hat and cloak:
Why, my young cousin, it is good to grow.
Of England's chair, where he is falsely set;
No doubt but he hath got a quiet catch.
KING RICHARD II:
I talk but idly, and you laugh at me.
Nothing that I respect, my gracious lord.
What you can make her do,
And hither shall he come: and he and I
Why, Buckingham, I say, I would be king,
But smacks of something greater than herself,
I tender not thy beauteous princely daughter!
KING EDWARD IV:
Made a divorce betwixt his queen and him,
The boy gives warning something doth approach.
When did she cross thee with a bitter word?
Was fast belock'd in thine; this is the body
maids, and cut off their heads.
As thou lovest me, Camillo, wipe not out the rest of
For gay apparel 'gainst the triumph day.
LADY GREY:
There have I made my promise
KATHARINA:
And so in me; and so, I think, in all:
And reason too:
spavins, rayed with yellows, past cure of the fives,
A business for yourself, pray heaven you then
He is a man, and, Clifford, cope with him.
That in gold clasps locks in the golden story;
To God, my king and my succeeding issue,
Was he met there? his train? Camillo with him?
But, O, it presses to my memory,
to find you out there: you have well saved me a
That is too cold in thinking of it now.
Is it e'en so? why, then, I thank you all
FRIAR LAURENCE:
Ah, hark! the fatal followers do pursue;
Like interrupted waters and o'erbear
QUEEN ELIZABETH:
Bight Phoebus in his strength--a malady
O dear father,
March on, my fellows:
Where they shall know our mind: away!
Would it were mortal poison, for thy sake!
An a' speak any thing against me, I'll take him
Ay, what else? and but I be deceived
Why, Romeo, art thou mad?
Good boatswain, have care. Where's the master?
Have ever made me sour my patient cheek,
No, mighty King of France: now Margaret
Ha! what is that?
Well met, my lord; I am glad to see your honour.
six time pieced and a woman's crupper of velure,
On this young man, for learning and behavior
To worthy danger and deserved death.
An alligator stuff'd, and other skins
Profess'd to him, why, his revenges must
From some forefather grief; mine is not so,
If I thou protector of this damned strumpet--
How dost thou know that, constable?
Well guess'd, believe me; for that was my meaning.
And this for Rutland; both bound to revenge,
For what reason, I beseech you?
O, then how quickly should this arm of mine.
And ask'd the mayor what meant this wilful silence:
And thus my battle shall be ordered:
To visit the next room, I'll presently
My crown I am; but still my griefs are mine:
That they have let the dangerous enemy
Sir, sir,--
Stand you thus close, to steal the bishop's deer?
Here comes a gentleman that haply knows more.
I would not lose the dog for twenty pound.
Poison hath residence and medicine power:
Tell her, Emilia.
The bristled lips before him: be bestrid
My falcon now is sharp and passing empty;
Upon thy tongue as in my thought: now, good now,
But that the next heir should succeed and reign.
To Edward, but not to the English king.
BUCKINGHAM:
And be not easily won to our request:
O, I am fortune's fool!
Being loose, unfirm, with digging up of graves,
God and our innocency defend and guard us!
KING EDWARD IV:
What is your crest? a coxcomb?
Warwick, this is some post to us or thee.
And where the worser is predominant,
But thou didst kill my children.
Am I; who ready here do stand in arms,
QUEEN MARGARET:
Not mutinous in peace, yet bold in war;
we term it, his friends whilst he's in directitude.
He is wise;
That you take with unthankfulness, his doing:
That I should snarl and bite and play the dog.
And he knew my deceased father well.
Of a despised life closed in my breast
And made a preachment of your high descent?
As little joy, my lord, as you suppose
Third Servant:
Her wagon-spokes made of long spiders' legs,
ape: he so near to Hermione hath done Hermione that
The gates of Rome. Our spoils we have brought home
CORIOLANUS:
Or shall I come to you at evening mass?
What think'st thou? is it not an easy matter
Than was that young and princely gentleman.
QUEEN ELIZABETH:
And therefore frame your manners to the time.
When black-faced Clifford shook his sword at him;
Please but your honour hear me.
I have a brother is condemn'd to die:
Come, thou tortoise! when?
DUCHESS OF YORK:
Shake quoth the dove-house: 'twas no need, I trow,
No, marry; I fear thee!
A thousand thanks, Signior Gremio.
The word is 'mildly.' Pray you, let us go:
Ascend his throne, descending now from him;
PETRUCHIO:
And so it is: I wonder what it bodes.
I am the king's friend, and will rid his foe.
Eating the bitter bread of banishment;
His livery, and deny his offer'd homage,
Why, very well; I hope here be truths. He, sir,
KING RICHARD III:
Where were her life? she durst not call me so,
O Tybalt, Tybalt, the best friend I had!
God and our good cause fight upon our side;
If not a feodary, but only he
signet is not strange to you.
Eleven, sir.
Who pass'd, methought, the melancholy flood,
HENRY BOLINGBROKE:
First Murderer:
By circumstance, but to acquit myself.
In your retirement, I had swinged him soundly.
AUTOLYCUS:
Upon his palm!--How now, you wanton calf!
Even in the lusty havior of his son.
He shows his reason for that: to have a dispatch of
When she will play with reason and discourse,
If he had gone forth consul, found it so.
While kites and buzzards prey at liberty.
You are the fount that makes small brooks to flow:
One that made means to come by what he hath,
That done, conduct him to the drunkard's chamber;
For which you are a traitor to the people.
I have no superfluous leisure; my stay must be
Can this dark monarchy afford false Clarence?'
And yet not so, for what can we bequeath
I'ld with thee every foot.
Will watch thy waking, and that very night
To hold my stirrup nor to take my horse!
Whatever I shall happen to devise.
Had answer'd for his deed: now 'tis awake
Despite of death that lives upon my grave,
The king hath on him such a countenance
That's enough.
Than are upon you yet.
Doth grace for grace and love for love allow;
greater soldier.
Dwelt by a churchyard: I will tell it softly;
To God, the widow's champion and defence.
From whence shall Warwick cut the sea to France,
For certain drops of salt, your city Rome,
Thy dangerous stoutness, for I mock at death
You had not found me here so musical:
Ay, to devour him; as the hungry plebeians would the
Who, when they see the hours ripe on earth,
Your pardon, sir; for this
So I to her and so she yields to me;
My gracious lady, go;
All places yield to him ere he sits down;
KATHARINA:
knock me well, and knock me soundly'? And come you
that's in them. Is the senate possessed of this?
You say you do not know the lady's mind:
And so am come abroad to see the world.
Signior Petruchio, will you go with us,
As cause doth minister. Go call at Flavius' house,
Second Messenger:
Hast thou beheld a fresher gentlewoman?
Mine, such as fill my heart with unhoped joys.
THOMAS MOWBRAY:
Drinking my griefs, whilst you mount up on high.
No; it is stopp'd with other flattering sounds,
Whom we have left protectors of the king,
To be by oath enjoin'd to this. Farewell!
To run upon the sharp wind of the north,
Poor key-cold figure of a holy king!
No more infected with my country's love
Wherein the king stands generally condemn'd.
After he once fell in with Mistress Shore.
As you malign our senators for that
'Tis he, my lord. Come hither, goodman baldpate:
To be so rid o' the business.
the knaves, you need not to fear the bawds.
This done, he took the bride about the neck
By putting on the destined livery.
My oracle, my prophet! My dear cousin,
I would he had continued to his country
The very mould and frame of hand, nail, finger:
KING RICHARD III:
Had squared me to thy counsel! then, even now,
Do seem to be of ours?
pawn till it be brought you.
For, look you, I may make the belly smile
Who is it?
But that a joy past joy calls out on me,
Whither, if it please you, we may now withdraw us.
Contract us 'fore these witnesses.
DUKE OF YORK:
DUKE VINCENTIO:
I'll find about the making of the bed;
This hand, fast wound about thy coal-black hair
Bespake them thus: 'I thank you, countrymen:'
It should be look'd to: come.
WESTMORELAND:
Make me to think so twenty years together!
He hath but as offended in a dream!
neither maid, widow, nor wife.
open ear, a quick eye, and a nimble hand, is
Loaden with honour. Say my request's unjust,
VINCENTIO:
This your request
In ivory coffers I have stuff'd my crowns;
Petitioners for blood thou ne'er put'st back.
At his house this night.
She I kill'd! I did so: but thou strikest me
Why then, the mustard without the beef.
Know thus far forth.
O, pity, God, this miserable age!
As Stephen Sly and did John Naps of Greece
I understand the business, I hear it: to have an
And welcome, general: and ye're welcome all.
best of 'em were hereditary hangmen. God-den to
Look, here comes one: a gentlewoman of mine,
In earth as quiet as thy father's skull:
Of whence I am, nor that I am more better
QUEEN ELIZABETH:
For we will make for Ireland presently.
KATHARINA:
Why, how are we censured?
HENRY PERCY:
And if King Edward be as true and just
Come forth, I say! there's other business for thee:
See where she comes from shrift with merry look.
I'll see what I can do.
LADY CAPULET:
Jesu Maria, what a deal of brine
CORIOLANUS:
Make war upon themselves; blood against blood,
BUCKINGHAM:
GLOUCESTER:
Whether to knock against the gates of Rome,
And, by my fall, the conquest to my foe.
They shall be praying nuns, not weeping queens;
though thy little finger be armed in a thimble.
report fort, but that he pays himself with being proud.
Didst note it?
Still ride in triumph over all mischance.
third--borough.
Why look you so upon me?
Of you, my noble cousin Buckingham,
PETRUCHIO:
If it be husbanded with modesty.
Why art thou yet so fair? shall I believe
bestowed her on her own lamentation, which she yet
Come on, come on; where is your boar-spear, man?
HENRY BOLINGBROKE:
With mine own tongue deny my sacred state,
'This is put forth too truly:' besides, I have stay'd
CORIOLANUS:
KING HENRY VI:
And then down falls again.
This is a poor epitome of yours,
Do, good my lord, lest all the land do rue it.
Sitting in the sun under the dove-house wall;
What has he done to Rome that's worthy death?
Or hollowly put on.
A salve for any sore that may betide.
Thy by-gone fooleries were but spices of it.
Prove it, Henry, and thou shalt be king.
Filling the air with swords advanced and darts,
What shouts are these? The other side o' the city
KING RICHARD II:
A horse whereon the governor doth ride,
jerkin, a pair of old breeches thrice turned, a pair
More light and light; more dark and dark our woes!
Than thou hast spoken words?
Mended again. The matter; proceed.
Ay, and burn too.
Break too.
Sit still, and hear the last of our sea-sorrow.
Ay, on my life; and hopes to find forward
What stratagems, how fell, how butcherly,
temperance.
Steep'd in the faultless blood of pretty Rutland--
Teach me to be your queen, and you my subjects:
imposition, as for the enjoying of thy life, who I
You put me off with limber vows; but I,
But all so soon as the all-cheering sun
cozen somebody in this city under my countenance.
And bow'd her hand to teach her fingering;
In lists, on Thomas Mowbray, Duke of Norfolk,
saddle. Yet you must be saying, Marcius is proud;
That hath authority over him that swears:
Because it is an enemy to thee;
I shall obey him.
My horse, my ox, my ass, my any thing;
she know me not: if she say I am not fourteen pence
I'll buckler thee against a million.
Any thing, my lord,
Water with berries in't, and teach me how
corner-stone?
This is the quondam king; let's seize upon him.
A lunatic lean-witted fool,
Would not infect his reason?
I talk of that, that know it.
Foul devil, for God's sake, hence, and trouble us not;
Go play, Mamillius; thou'rt an honest man.
When clouds appear, wise men put on their cloaks;
I'll be his surety.
Like to a dismal clangour heard from far,
To bear a poison, I would temper it;
One word, good friend. Lucio, a word with you.
It is for you we speak, not for ourselves:
From these old arms and legs, by the good gods,
Yea, Richard, when I know; for I protest
Plantagenet, for all the claim thou lay'st,
your execution. If you think it meet, compound with
And summon him to-morrow to the Tower,
see where he looks out of the window.
All things that we ordained festival,
Your princely father and my loving lord!
I will lead forth my soldiers to the plain,
POLIXENES:
Must I then do't to them?
In ignorant concealment.
Is thy news good, or bad? answer to that;
You and your apron-men; you that stood so up much
Though in some part enforced to digress;
action outdone his former deeds doubly
Confirm the crown to me and to mine heirs,
For the in which doth control't.
Quick, dispatch, and send the head to Angelo.
To prison with her! Shall we thus permit
Nor can my tongue unload my heart's great burthen;
DUKE VINCENTIO:
Desire the earl to see me in my tent:
God hold it, to your honour's good content!
No, by the holy rood, thou know'st it well,
And so did I; and, to say the truth, so did very
Mis-shapen chaos of well-seeming forms!
Good sooth, even thus; therefore ha' done with words:
They call me Katharina that do talk of me.
O, she knew well
Than that of common sons.
Let's to the Capitol;
Come hither, Mariana.
friendship
Throw up thine eye! see, see what showers arise,
I would to heaven I had your potency,
Should I now meet my father,
any thing I want: offer me no money, I pray you;
And the poor beetle, that we tread upon,
Ah, cousin York! would thy best friends did know
A letter for me! it gives me an estate of seven
More than the infant that is born to-night
In his behalf.
So 'twere not 'long of him; but being enter'd,
CORIOLANUS:
Will serve the turn.
And, yet brought forth less than a mother's hope,
And seek their ruin that usurp'd our right?
But thine doth fry.
Shall I not, then, be stifled in the vault,
Then mightst thou speak, then mightst thou tear thy hair,
Have taken treasure from her lips--
Than in possession and jot of pleasure.
To fight on Edward's party for the crown;
You are one of those
These eyes that never shed remorseful tear,
What cannot be amended.
According to the fashion and the time.
This prison where I live unto the world:
My lord, I have from Oxford sent to London
Where in that nest of spicery they shall breed
I know it;
But touch this sparingly, as 'twere far off,
The common file--a plague! tribunes for them!--
As you had slept between: Leontes leaving,
Saw you the king to-day, my Lord of Derby?
Let me commend thee first to those that shall
should buy the fee-simple of my life for an hour and a quarter.
My gracious sovereign, on the western coast
Which bars a thousand harms and lengthens life.
These were his very words.
And better used, would make her sainted spirit
FRIAR LAURENCE:
Purchase the sight again of dear Sicilia
What is he, Biondello?
I crave your honour's pardon.
The king and prince at prayers! let's assist them,
HORTENSIO:
KATHARINA:
O, peace, Paulina!
KING EDWARD IV:
The note lies in's throat, if he say I said so.
Yea, is the worst well? very well took, i' faith;
GLOUCESTER:
presently, and swoon for what's to come upon thee.
From Ravenspurgh to Cotswold will be found
To feed my humour, wish thyself no harm.
O God, that seest it, do not suffer it!
Without her, follows to this land and me,
And yet I'll promise thee she shall be rich
You are all resolved rather to die than to famish?
BIONDELLO:
I know it is the sun that shines so bright.
Which are the children of an idle brain,
Hold, daughter: I do spy a kind of hope,
We have: whereupon the Earl of Worcester
Thus by Apollo's great divine seal'd up,
See, your guests approach:
'Twould be my tyranny to strike and gall them
I little like.
And makes her pew-fellow with others' moan!
On both his knees doth kiss King Richard's hand
A horse and a man
Nay, good my lord, be not afraid of shadows.
KING EDWARD IV:
I was by at the opening of the fardel, heard the old
flowers o' the season
whore!' Why, is not this a lamentable thing,
I'll strive, with troubled thoughts, to take a nap,
Unhappily, even so.
A goodly person: he hath lost his fellows
Where shall we dine? O me! What fray was here?
And so have I, boy.
What, have I pinch'd you, Signior Gremio?
O, now I want the priest that spake to me:
KING HENRY VI:
And, as I hear, the great commanding Warwick
With striving less to be so; lesser had been
First Soldier:
List to your tribunes. Audience: peace, I say!
Vouchsafe to wear this ring.
Must I do so? and must I ravel out
Make a short shrift; he longs to see your head.
For then she never looks upon her lure.
Quit presently the chapel, or resolve you
MISTRESS OVERDONE:
DUKE VINCENTIO:
A mother less? or granted less, Aufidius?
Be not ta'en tardy by unwise delay.
Not to be pardon'd, am content withal.
I'll in, to urge his hatred more to Clarence,
Are summer songs for me and my aunts,
Having no other reason
'O, Jesus bless us, he is born with teeth!'
The borrow of a week. When at Bohemia
Bid me farewell, and smile. I pray you, come.
My remedy is then, to pluck it out.
Well, sir, to do you courtesy,
That they'll take no offence at our abuse.
Go; away with her to prison!
Ensues his piteous and unpitied end:
O'er lawyers' fingers, who straight dream on fees,
But that I seek occasion how to rise,
Sir, if it please your honour, this is not so.
Is crown'd so soon, and broke his solemn oath?
Would not the beggar then forget himself?
Long mayst thou live in Richard's seat to sit,
For I repent me that the duke is slain.
That wounds me with the flatteries of his tongue.
Myself and my good cousin Buckingham
Before this ancient sir, who, it should seem,
Hark, how they knock! Who's there? Romeo, arise;
O gracious duke,
To the house of Signior Baptista Minola?
He lives that loves thee better than he could.
The damned'st body to invest and cover
To bless the bed of majesty again
The one side must have bale.
Alas, you know, 'tis far from hence to France;
Second Murderer:
All night for lesser cause, and ne'er been sick.
Your franchises, whereon you stood, confined
Yet nature might have made me as these are,
But if I could, by Him that gave me life,
And stay, good nurse, behind the abbey wall:
Give me, give me! O, tell not me of fear!
all foul ways! Was ever man so beaten? was ever
Wilt thou not, Jule?' and, by my holidame,
which none must know but the king; and which he
For mercy to his country. Therefore, let's hence,
That jade hath eat bread from my royal hand;
But, with the first of all your chief affairs,
And help to arm me. Leave me, I say.
Her enemies' marks upon me. I do love
Poor harmless lambs abide their enmity.
This is strange.
POLIXENES:
It will be dangerous to go on: no further.
And death, not Romeo, take my maidenhead!
On whom these airs attend! Vouchsafe my prayer
I pray thee, gentle keeper, stay by me;
Our wedding cheer to a sad burial feast,
Kind uncle York, the latest news we hear
Exeter, thou art a traitor to the crown
so we wept, and there was the first gentleman-like
As mine on hers, so hers is set on mine;
Yes, worthy sir,
But, sure, I fear, we shall ne'er win him to it.
The needful bits and curbs to headstrong weeds,
Convenient is it. Make a swift return;
Spoke like an officer; ha' to thee, lad!
And from her jealous arms pluck him perforce.
And lessen'd be that small, God, I beseech thee!
How now, my as fair as noble ladies,--and the moon,
DUKE OF YORK:
By Christ's dear blood shed for our grievous sins,
By one that I'll procure to come to thee,
Made such a sinner of his memory,
Unrip'dst the bowels of thy sovereign's son.
How would you live, Pompey? by being a bawd? What
A royal battle might be won and lost
Was brow-bound with the oak. His pupil age
Now sadder, that you come so unprovided.
As yonder lady o'er her fellows shows.
Brother, thou shalt to London presently,
To this my fair beloved: therefore, I pray you,
Sir, I beseech you, think you he'll carry Rome?
Mark our contract.
O, I will to him and pluck out his eyes!
Another tell him of his hounds and horse,
Fetch hither Richard, that in common view
Which here we waken to our country's good,
In brief, sir, sith it your pleasure is,
He whined and roar'd away your victory,
forty thousand fathom above water, and sung this
and let the world slip: we shall ne'er be younger.
the university.
Ay, traitor, Marcius!
Good gentleman! the wrongs I have done thee stir
I have been i' the market-place; and, sir,'tis fit
Now Margaret's curse is fallen upon my head;
Though every drop of water swear against it
I boarded the king's ship; now on the beak,
To the dead bodies: I will apprehend him.
CORIOLANUS:
On your allegiance,
Take that, thou likeness of this railer here.
First Senator:
And make me die the thrall of Margaret's curse,
What hast here? ballads?
Than if thou never hadst deserved our hate.
But what your jealousies awake, I tell you
And daily new exactions are devised,
Content thee, gentle coz, let him alone;
Yet he is come.
With dull unwilligness to repay a debt
High sparks of honour in thee have I seen.
circumstance: that which you hear you'll swear you
Hath been! is it ended, then? Our state thinks not
POLIXENES:
KING RICHARD II:
Prithee, son, do; for we must be gentle, now we are
To lay one in, another out to have.
Let him be whipt and hang'd.
Which is the bell: so sighs and tears and groans
Fine linen, Turkey cushions boss'd with pearl,
That thou respect'st not spilling Edward's blood:
We'll thwack him hence with distaffs.
DUCHESS OF YORK:
Therein behold themselves: I say again,
DUKE VINCENTIO:
Farewell at once, for once, for all, and ever.
AUTOLYCUS:
With every minute you do change a mind,
Shalt see me once more strike at Tullus' face.
One rich enough to be Petruchio's wife,
Not a dump we; 'tis no time to play now.
As frankly as a pin.
son the whole name of the war: he hath in this
My thoughts are minutes; and with sighs they jar
For never was a story of more woe
Go, count thy way with sighs; I mine with groans.
I now begin with grief and shame to utter:
The son, compell'd, been butcher to the sire:
knew not what to take and what to leave, ha?
To go with Paris to Saint Peter's Church,
Argues your wisdoms and your love to Richard:'
I'll draw it as apparent to the crown,
DUKE VINCENTIO:
alike and none less dear than thine and my good
Laid open all your victories in Scotland,
Exton, I thank thee not; for thou hast wrought
Ay, my good lord; and no one in this presence
Perpetual durance?
When triumph is become an alehouse guest?
Into the blind cave of eternal night.
For your best health and recreation.
All mine own folly--the society,
How couldst thou drain the life-blood of the child,
Why, no; for she hath broke the lute to me.
'Twill grieve your grace my sons should call you father.
QUEEN ELIZABETH:
Touches me deeper than you can imagine.
Can thereto frame his spirit.
To swim, to dive into the fire, to ride
Break off the parley; for scarce I can refrain
One of these days; and then you'ld wanton with us,
Second Musician:
Men for their sons, wives for their husbands,
Is crack'd, and all the precious liquor spilt,
But I'ld say he had not,
I mean our princely father, Duke of York.
And in the brunt of seventeen battles since
For I will buz abroad such prophecies
And occupations perish!
Being so great, I have no need to beg.
thy wits than, I am sure, I have in my whole five:
The king hath straitly charged the contrary.
No use of metal, corn, or wine, or oil;
And with his troops doth march amain to London;
Nor, gentle daughter, fear you not at all.
GLOUCESTER:
Has cluck'd thee to the wars and safely home,
How often dost thou with thy case, thy habit,
Ye say honestly: rest you merry!
Intends you for his swift ambassador,
Ay, but not frighted me; therefore I'll sleep again.
As thou shalt think on prating whilst thou livest!
My words express my purpose.
DUCHESS OF YORK:
things should be: all difficulties are but easy
O' my word, an she knew him as well as I do, she
Imagine 'twere the right Vincentio.
Shall have the leading of this foot and horse.
For the instalment of this noble duke
DUKE VINCENTIO:
And so do I. Victorious Prince of York,
If it be ne'er so false, a true gentleman may swear
Ay, but, I fear me, in another sense.
I had rather chop this hand off at a blow,
The ivy which had hid my princely trunk,
Thrusts forth his horns again into the world;
To follow this fair corse unto her grave:
Away, thou rag, thou quantity, thou remnant;
hereafter, which shall then have no power to stand
Sir, your company is fairer than honest. Rest you well.
We'll serve Him too and be his fellow so:
Like an unseasonable stormy day,
To whose flint bosom my condemned lord
At a poor man's house; he used me kindly:
For one poor grain or two!
Besides two thousand ducats by the year
Had he done so, himself had borne the crown,
BUCKINGHAM:
Why, they stay at door, sir.
From Richard's night to Bolingbroke's fair day.
I believe thee; for I think thou never wast where
The son of Clarence have I pent up close;
No,'tis his kind of speech: he did not mock us.
Upon his brow shame is ashamed to sit;
To thee, that hast nor honesty nor grace.
No other harm but loss of such a lord.
Even with such life of majesty, warm life,
No longer shall you gaze on't, lest your fancy
But he's deceived; we are in readiness.
incharitable dog!
Marry, bachelor,
CORIOLANUS:
Who knows not he is dead! who knows he is?
HORTENSIO:
Nicanor? no.
I swear to do this, though a present death
Hidest thou that forehead with a golden crown,
Remove you hence: I knew you at the first
With trembling wings misdoubteth every bush;
And by and by my master drew on him;
Ah, who is nigh? come to me, friend or foe,
Nor cowardly in retire: believe me, sirs,
His is the right, and therefore pardon me.
And there repose you for this night.
Love give me strength! and strength shall help afford.
them: there may be matter in it.
O, she doth teach the torches to burn bright!
The fixture of her eye has motion in't,
we cannot with such magnificence--in so rare--I know
Profess'd the contrary.
Many that are not mad
Bound to himself! what doth he with a bond
not hand a rope more; use your authority: if you
I did confess it, and exactly begg'd
Of burning Rome.
PETRUCHIO:
Should a like language use to all degrees
Come, cousin, canst thou quake, and change thy colour,
The warrants for yourself; take heed to't.
Lord Mayor:
GLOUCESTER:
Part us, Northumberland; I toward the north,
Ere further leisure yield them further means
And the gods doom him after!
opposite. Now, to seem to affect the malice and
First Musician:
Which most gibingly, ungravely, he did fashion
Than a wild dedication of yourselves
On safe-guard he came to me; and did curse
being, as I am, littered under Mercury, was likewise
If is, my liege; and all things are in readiness.
O, know you yet, he doth it publicly,
And she was wean'd,--I never shall forget it,--
therein would have found issue. Hear me profess
We'll keep no great ado,--a friend or two;
Now, sir, her father counts it dangerous
I have the letter here; yes, here it is.
Make it no wonder; if you knew my business,
It follows in his thought that I am he.
And little Ned Plantagenet, his son?
Which by my presence might have been concluded.
From the casque to the cushion, but commanding peace
Gaunt am I for the grave, gaunt as a grave,
Your children yet unborn and unbegot,
And disinherited thine only son.
Your grace mistakes; only to be brief
What torch is yond, that vainly lends his light
That when she dies with beauty dies her store.
By the king.
Since you did leave it for my office, sir.
Nothing may give us aid.
And of his friends there, it is lots to blanks,
For that our kingdom's earth should not be soil'd
Peace have they made with him indeed, my lord.
Nay, it's no matter for that.
Call, good Mercutio.
Those uncles which you want were dangerous;
You shall not be admitted to his sight.
Lovel and Ratcliff, look that it be done:
Go, Cleomenes;
Young York he is but boot, because both they
O, if thine eye be not a flatterer,
Dear earth, I do salute thee with my hand,
To old Baptista as a schoolmaster
Should so with civil and uncivil arms
So your dislike, to whom I would be pleasing,
As now our flesh is banish'd from this land:
At Chertsey monastery this noble king,
Some six miles off the duke is with the soldiers;
What, ho, Barnardine!
NORTHUMBERLAND:
With whom my soul is any jot at odds
Just opposite to what thou justly seem'st,
But, as you will not wed, I'll pardon you:
Ah, my young princes! ah, my tender babes!
Till the prince came, who parted either part.
Second Servant:
Keep house and port and servants as I should:
Ere't be disburden'd with a liberal tongue.
I prithee, call't. For this ungentle business
so with him.
Who gently would dissolve the bands of life,
BALTHASAR:
For God's sake, take away this captive scold.
Bid them wash their faces
KING HENRY VI:
But that the extreme peril of the case,
AUTOLYCUS:
Who? that Petruchio came?
To seek to put me down and reign thyself.
For night-owls shriek where mounting larks
Which men are best inclined.
I'll lend you all my life to do you service.
Out of his charity, being then appointed
Set me against Aufidius and his Antiates;
Faith, as you say, there's small choice in rotten
A footman, sweet sir, a footman.
CORIOLANUS:
Welcome, how agreed?
Than you can put us to't.
Desire to breed by me. Here's flowers for you;
Than Edward will for tidings of my death.
But let him swear so, and he shall not stay,
PETRUCHIO:
Why with some little train, my Lord of Buckingham?
Thou wast never with me for any thing when thou wast
Thy father bears the type of King of Naples,
But as this title honours me and mine,
From the noise of our own drums.'
man to teach her that wherein she delights, I will
A very scurvy fellow.
Sweet Isabel, do yet but kneel by me;
The lands and waters 'twixt your throne and his
My lord, we'll do it throughly.
How I have ever loved the life removed
HENRY BOLINGBROKE:
Containing the deposing of a king
A sea and land full. You have pray'd well to-day:
I do fear, too dreadful:
Neither supreme, how soon confusion
than the stripes I have received, which are mighty
Till Bolingbroke have pardon'd thee. Away, be gone!
To the ensuing age abhorr'd.' Speak to me, son:
So, lie thou there: die thou, and die our fear;
He fires the proud tops of the eastern pines
No lord of thine, thou haught insulting man,
Watch'd for your voices; for Your voices bear
It doth so, holy sir; and there's my master,
Have, sure, more lack of reason. What would you say?
Very well met, and well come.
Have chid me from the battle; swearing both
Or stones whose rates are either rich or poor
I want more uncles here to welcome me.
With too much riches it confound itself:
Were not you then as cruel as the sentence
Thrice noble lord, let me entreat of you
To bring this tidings to the bloody king.
Both Tribunes:
Richard yet lives, hell's black intelligencer,
Which by the interpretation of full time
Truly, sir, in my poor opinion, they will to't then.
Not for the fliers: mark me, and do the like.
He would not, but by gift of my chaste body
Have I not told thee how I was cozened by the way
is worn, the jest may remain after the wearing sole singular.
Farewell, my sovereign.
And thou with all pleased, that hast all achieved!
Have sold their lives unto the house of York;
Must have a word anon. Lay hold on him.
And meaner than myself have had like fortune.
KING EDWARD IV:
And Edward, my poor son, at Tewksbury.
By heaven, I come in perfect love to him;
Which shows like grief itself, but is not so;
How! traitor!
If thou hadst fear'd to break an oath by Him,
Shall be this cold corpse on the earth's cold face;
She is the hopeful lady of my earth:
If it be so, sir, that you are the man
For I have often heard my mother say
Absolute Milan. Me, poor man, my library
The contrary doth make thee wonder'd at:
I think it well:
He that has the two fair daughters: is't he you mean?
The which he hath detain'd for lewd employments,
I have no tongue but one: gentle my lord,
In brief,--for so the season bids us be,--
Nay, then I see that Edward needs must down.
Be-mock the modest moon.
Then I salute you with this kingly title:
And wet my cheeks with artificial tears,
'Tis doubt he will be: letters came last night
Making practise on the times,
For now, these hot days, is the mad blood stirring.
Subject his coronet to his crown and bend
Upon the giddy footing of the hatches,
What, think you then the king shall be deposed?
And I am going with instruction to him.
Nor with thy sweets comfort his ravenous sense;
Thy state of law is bondslave to the law; And thou--
Am heir to my affection.
So dear I loved the man, that I must weep.
He's a disease that must be cut away.
This is unlikely:
GLOUCESTER:
upon him, sir, a strange picklock, which we have
are they gone, and there they intend to sup.
'Tis not possible.
from court and is less frequent to his princely
With nothing trembles: at some thing it grieves,
There lies that Tybalt.
Of that there's none, or little.
PETRUCHIO:
I wis your grandam had a worser match.
King Lewis and Lady Bona, hear me speak,
censured here in the city, I mean of us o' the
Having seen but him and Caliban: foolish wench!
By which he should revive: and even so
For both hast thou, and both become the grave.
If he be put upon 't; and that's as easy
HORTENSIO:
Well, let us go together.
I will be squared by this. I do believe
I have tumbled past the throw; and in his praise
Hold you his hands, whilst I do set it on.
sorrows I might be some allay, or I o'erween to
QUEEN ELIZABETH:
order of law a furred gown to keep him warm; and
BUCKINGHAM:
There shall not at your father's house these
DUKE OF YORK:
They will bring all; whose spiritual counsel had,
none of his skains-mates. And thou must stand by
My mercy dried their water-flowing tears;
Yet are they passing cowardly. But, I beseech you,
Some say he is with the Emperor of Russia; other
Thy sly conveyance and thy lord's false love;
To sue to live, I find I seek to die;
O fortune, fortune! all men call thee fickle:
That talk'd of her, have talk'd amiss of her:
Their nicely-gawded cheeks to the wanton spoil
Ay, by my faith, for a poor earl to give:
house; next, this is a respected fellow; and his
As he was coming from this churchyard side.
That, being mad herself, she's madly mated.
Why, 'tis a cockle or a walnut-shell,
Old Signior Gremio has in Padua;
I know they do; and I have well deserved it.
As words could make up vows: and, my good lord,
Ay, but she's come to beg, Warwick to give;
For we have nothing else to ask, but that
This morning for ten thousand of your throats
because musicians have no gold for sounding:
DUKE OF AUMERLE:
sell him an hour from her beholding, I, considering
Fatal and ominous to noble peers!
AUTOLYCUS:
Tell our devotion with revengeful arms?
Here comes his mother.
Will be as rash in the repeal, as hasty
Kissing with inside lip? stopping the career
creature in resemblance of the mother, the affection
I do beseech you,
O brave young prince! thy famous grandfather
things, all but what she has with her: this being
First Murderer:
Out three years old.
He dreads his wife.
I'll look to like, if looking liking move:
Here, here, sir; here, sir.
No more my king, for he dishonours me,
First Servant:
And in it are the Lords of York, Berkeley, and Seymour;
Shall, stiff and stark and cold, appear like death:
bountiful to the desirers. Therefore, beseech you,
And made between's by vows. Thou hast found mine;
As cause will be obey'd. Please you to march;
With our own charge, making a treaty where
Have you done there?
Mine, full of sorrow and heart's discontent.
Of fire and water, when their thundering shock
First, heaven be the record to my speech!
And in his parties, his alliance; let him be
there rust, and let me die.
I think there be six Richmonds in the field;
Make much of him, my lords, for this is he
KING RICHARD III:
Will piece up in himself.
My trusty servant, well approved in all,
As you would beg, were you in my distress
Ay, and old York, and yet not satisfied.
Death, that dark spirit, in 's nervy arm doth lie;
CORIOLANUS:
That came too lag to see him buried.
Upon his party for the gain thereof:
By heaven, I think there's no man is secure
SEBASTIAN:
Comes Warwick, backing of the Duke of York;
Upon the heavy middle of the night
prince: I cannot tell, good sir, for which of his
If this be magic, let it be an art
O, patience!
'Scape being drunk for want of wine.
CORIOLANUS:
I think you have
Messenger:
hose! a scarlet cloak! and a copatain hat! O, I
A gentleman, nurse, that loves to hear himself talk,
And say it is the queen and her allies
KING HENRY VI:
Whilst you have fed upon my signories,
shepherd deliver the manner how he found it:
Forget to pity him, lest thy pity prove
PRINCE EDWARD:
And after many scorns, many foul taunts,
As thoughts of things divine, are intermix'd
With heigh! with heigh! the thrush and the jay,
I assure you, Carthage.
And what to?
To vice you to't, that you have touch'd his queen
Or had he 'scaped, methinks we should have heard
stuff a rabbit; and so may you, sir: and so, adieu,
Now Jove afford you cause!
HORTENSIA:
your complexion, shall keep the body of it ever
That everything I look on seemeth green:
I'm out of patience.
Sorry I am my noble cousin should
To tell us whether they will come or no!
GLOUCESTER:
Ay, and mine,
For I will board her, though she chide as loud
To hear and see her plaints, her brinish tears.
snow that's bolted
Sirrah, where have you been?
While he enjoys the honour and his ease.
Your husband, he is gone to save far off,
And Walter's dagger was not come from sheathing:
Can heaven be so envious?
Seventh Citizen:
I pray thee, chide not; she whom I love now
CORIOLANUS:
I spy comfort; I cry bail. Here's a gentleman and a
When good manners shall lie all in one or two men's
Then, if you fight against God's enemy,
O, if you raise this house against this house,
CORIOLANUS:
God's bread! it makes me mad:
Lords, to the field; Saint George and victory!
O Clifford, boisterous Clifford! thou hast slain
I am denied to sue my livery here,
Of all the world I loved and to him put
That blood should sprinkle me to make me grow:
'Tis said, my liege, in Yorkshire are in arms.
Alive, in triumph! and Mercutio slain!
Mistress Kate Keepdown was with child by him in the
I'll point you where you shall have such receiving
We have a trifling foolish banquet towards.
in Greek, Latin, and other languages, as the other
A right fair mark, fair coz, is soonest hit.
AUTOLYCUS:
The advancement of your children, gentle lady.
And though man's face be fearful to their eyes,
'Tis very true: thou didst it excellent.
None but for some and yet all different.
GLOUCESTER:
Cominius, no.
This is another prisoner that I saved.
That God had lent us but this only child;
There is another friar that set them on;
Is a foul traitor to proud Hereford's king:
Let's purge this choler without letting blood:
What think you of it?
So, I am satisfied. Give me a bowl of wine:
Ah, let me live in prison all my days;
That Rome can make against them.
Here burns my candle out; ay, here it dies,
Have I not heard the sea puff'd up with winds
with divines, and have all charitable preparation.
Who from my cabin tempted me to walk
Forgive me, cousin! Ah, dear Juliet,
To teach you gamut in a briefer sort,
My ears have not yet drunk a hundred words
Whilst my gross flesh sinks downward, here to die.
I find myself a traitor with the rest;
Seldom or never jumpeth with the heart.
And let my woes frown on the upper hand.
So fled his enemies my warlike father:
KING RICHARD III:
That book in many's eyes doth share the glory,
The noble duke hath been too much abused.
Why shall we fight, if you pretend no title?
With child, perhaps?
How lush and lusty the grass looks! how green!
And doth it give me such a sight as this?
Than three great argosies; besides two galliases,
Chequering the eastern clouds with streaks of light,
Of that integrity which should become't,
Ah, Warwick, Warwick! wert thou as we are.
If the ill spirit have so fair a house,
My soul is heavy, and I fain would sleep.
Our bridal flowers serve for a buried corse,
How like, methought, I then was to this kernel,
Lord Warwick, on thy shoulder will I lean;
Come I too late?
Think you a little din can daunt mine ears?
Sojourn in Mantua; I'll find out your man,
AUTOLYCUS:
Go, fellow, get thee home, provide some carts
But what's the matter, Clarence? may I know?
May suffer alteration, on mine honour,
Hold your peaces.
Puts my apparel and my countenance on,
That Edward is escaped from your brother,
Both dame and servant; welcomed all, served all;
Ay, like a dastard and a treacherous coward,
I give this heavy weight from off my head
hath no drowning mark upon him; his complexion is
I loved him as in honour he required,
A join'd-stool.
I'll use that tongue I have: if wit flow from't
they not malefactors?
As fast as mill-wheels strike. Then was this island--
Lucentio, gentle sir.
No, good my lord; let's fight with gentle words
PETRUCHIO:
bill, give me thy mete-yard, and spare not me.
LORD STANLEY:
My Lord Fitzwater, I do remember well
Upon the innocent and aweless throne:
I do repent. Alas! I have show'd too much
To meet at London London's king in woe.
Ay, boy, ready.
And unsuspected court her by herself.
A napkin steeped in the harmless blood
troll-my-dames; I knew him once a servant of the
A miserable by the death of him
Stop thy unhallow'd toil, vile Montague!
His father revell'd in the heart of France,
Though 'twere to buy a world of happy days,
O'er-cover'd quite with dead men's rattling bones,
Say so but seldom.
And hide me with a dead man in his shroud;
DUKE VINCENTIO:
Which ne'er I did remember: to my knowledge,
Wherein you see me smear'd; if any fear
KING HENRY VI:
The late demand that you did sound me in.
That I shall say good night till it be morrow.
Of dreaded justice, but on the ministers
And now I find report a very liar;
Never believe me. Both are my kinsmen:
KING EDWARD IV:
seven years
GLOUCESTER:
It will be pastime passing excellent,
Yet, in protection of their tender ones,
Or cloy the hungry edge of appetite
That's sure of death without it, at once pluck out
QUEEN ELIZABETH:
GLOUCESTER:
And so swear I, my lord
Wherein this trunk was framed, and in her hand
That you shall stifle in your own report
Beseech you,--
shortly, for one would kill the other. Thou! why,
You must, sir, change persons with me, ere you make
But he must die to-morrow?
The steeled gaoler is the friend of men.
Do I live dead that live to tell it now.
What's here? a cup, closed in my true love's hand?
If you thrive well, bring them to Baynard's Castle;
And at the other is my servant Catesby
And with declining head into his bosom,
And I will do it without fear or doubt,
If Warwick knew in what estate he stands,
What am I, sir! nay, what are you, sir? O immortal
Romeo that kill'd him, he is banished.
Lest that the treachery of the two fled hence
Is creeping toward me; how far off, how near;
BARNARDINE:
Very nobly
For this time, all the rest depart away:
Run with these false and most contrarious quests
One more, most welcome, makes my number more.
His deputy anointed in His sight,
KING EDWARD IV:
To appoint myself in this vexation, sully
What, shall we toward the Tower? the day is spent.
Consider this: he has been bred i' the wars
Nor posted off their suits with slow delays;
This, by the way, I let you understand;
CHRISTOPHER:
Where great patricians shall attend and shrug,
Nay, nothing; all is said
Why, very well; I telling you then, if you be
If it be so,
Yea, all my raiment, to my petticoat;
BUCKINGHAM:
May not be punish'd with my thwarting stars,
When I am cold in zeal to yours.
Tears then for babes; blows and revenge for me
The people are incensed against him.
your grace
But praying, to enrich his watchful soul:
CORIOLANUS:
The kingly-crowned head, the vigilant eye,
You are a saucy boy: is't so, indeed?
Of boundless tongue, who late hath beat her husband
Son, I'll be your half, Bianca comes.
QUEEN MARGARET:
As is a dead man's nose: but I do see't and feel't
Dally not with the gods, but get thee gone.
KING RICHARD II:
Where and what time thou wilt perform the rite;
Without her love; for her employ them all;
Claudio die to-morrow or no?
The purple sap from her sweet brother's body
Good man, the wounds that he does bear for Rome!
Whose western side is with a vineyard back'd;
Therein thou wrong'st thy children mightily.
If we would have you.
Why, love, I say! madam! sweet-heart! why, bride!
No, take more:
I have a head, sir, that will find out logs,
Shamed their aspect with store of childish drops:
secrets, but you must be tittle-tattling before all
If tinkers may have leave to live,
The blood of English shall manure the ground,
behavior. We are not to stay all together, but to
Our spoils he kick'd at,
poor gentlewoman: there she lost a noble and
Ingrate forgetfulness shall poison, rather
My life and services.
And shake the yoke of inauspicious stars
ANTIGONUS:
What, talking with a priest, lord chamberlain?
A marble monument!
DUKE VINCENTIO:
O earth, which this blood drink'st revenge his death!
Well, well, sir, well.
I prithee, hear me speak.
From where you do remain let paper show.
Good morrow to you both. What counterfeit did I give you?
He cannot but with measure fit the honours
Nurse! Wife! What, ho! What, nurse, I say!
Hover about her; say, that right for right
I prithee,
'Tis not his new-made bride shall succor him:
sea-sick, and himself little better, extremity of
QUEEN MARGARET:
If any spark of life be yet remaining,
DUKE OF AUMERLE:
I am your wife in all obedience.
Or else for ever be confixed here,
Roundly replied.
Then she is well, and nothing can be ill:
A widow, then?
Proclaim you are no less! Can you so stead me
But you must trouble him with lewd complaints.
All this I know; and to the marriage
The adulterate Hastings, Rivers, Vaughan, Grey,
See where she comes and brings your froward wives
'Hold, friends! friends, part!' and, swifter than
Now, brother king, farewell, and sit you fast,
I am no breeching scholar in the schools;
And were they to be ruled, and not to rule,
What, all so soon asleep! I wish mine eyes
And no way from yourselves. What do you think,
GLOUCESTER:
say if the importance were joy or sorrow; but in the
Thou hast sworn my love to be.
We are, my lord; and come to have the warrant
him by the year, and let him abide here with you; if
Now, fair befal thee, good Petruchio!
I never wish'd to see you sorry; now
You have no cause to hold my friendship doubtful:
PETRUCHIO:
CORIOLANUS:
Go to the rude ribs of that ancient castle;
My mind is changed, sir, my mind is changed.
To give you over at this first encounter,
should quickly have been out, I warrant you: I dare
I love them as they weigh.
Now, by my maidenhead, at twelve year old,
He lived from all attainder of suspect.
QUEEN ELIZABETH:
HENRY BOLINGBROKE:
Of an old tear that is not wash'd off yet:
No better.
Whoever gave that counsel, to give forth
My lessons make no music in three parts.
Sir, a word ere you go;
Read it not, noble lords;
All this from my remembrance brutish wrath
Plough Rome and harrow Italy: I'll never
A Patrician:
I was moved withal.
utters them as he had eaten ballads and all men's
Direct not him whose way himself will choose:
Then thou dwellest with daws too?
BUCKINGHAM:
So say we too, but not by Edward's wife;
Lo, here upon thy cheek the stain doth sit
warning: the deputy cannot abide a whoremaster: if
Prepare you, lords, for Edward is at hand.
The generous and gravest citizens
You may deny that you were not the cause
Found truth in all but one: I, in twelve thousand, none.
Hath set the women on to this complaint:
For this is he that moves both wind and tide.
Take the boy to you: he so troubles me,
O heavens! O wife, look how our daughter bleeds!
Vile earth, to earth resign; end motion here;
Ready, when time shall prompt them, to make road.
You have no cause.
Made him my book wherein my soul recorded
O Lord, I could have stay'd here all the night
Hortensio, have you told him all her faults?
In gross rebellion and detested treason:
These eyes are not the same I wore in Rome.
That is the way to lay the city flat;
Indeed, my lord,
KING EDWARD IV:
We'll surety him.
With your crown'd brother and these your contracted
He came alive to land.
You speak as if that I had slain my cousins.
Why, therefore Warwick came to seek you out;
Shall I send to thee?
As we have, such. This gallant which thou seest
Lead us from hence, where we may leisurely
My strong imagination sees a crown
Say, I, her sovereign, am her subject love.
A confidence sans bound. He being thus lorded,
KATHARINA:
To see how inly sorrow gripes his soul.
Who now the price of his dear blood doth owe?
He's poor in no one fault, but stored with all.
For matching more for wanton lust than honour,
And finds the testy gentleman so hot,
What? what?
All comfort that the dark night can afford
How often he had met you, sword to sword;
Before we proceed any further, hear me speak.
GLOUCESTER:
Not that I pity Henry's misery,
LADY CAPULET:
But that to your sufficiency, as your Worth is able,
Besides, he hates me for my father Warwick;
they hate upon no better a ground: therefore, for
One: tell.
Hence, villain! never more come in my sight.
AUTOLYCUS:
Our slaughter'd friends the tackles; what of these?
QUEEN MARGARET:
Foot it featly here and there;
I am too childish-foolish for this world.
Be absolute for death; either death or life
Romeo! O, pale! Who else? what, Paris too?
Give me the crown. Here, cousin, seize the crown;
Filth as thou art, with human care, and lodged thee
I pray you, sir, let him go while the humour lasts.
I understand thee well; and be thou sure,
My noble lords and cousins all, good morrow.
HENRY BOLINGBROKE:
As brittle as the glory is the face;
KING EDWARD IV:
hallowed and brought a benediction to the buyer:
That speaks thy words again to do thee harm!
How if it be false, son?
As I hate hell, all Montagues, and thee:
man so rayed? was ever man so weary? I am sent
But not take in the mind.
Of good and bad, that makes and unfolds error,
To the winds whose pity, sighing back again,
Walter, Sugarsop and the rest: let their heads be
Sacred and sweet was all I saw in her.
The duke's in us; and we will hear you speak:
Come, sir; come, sir; come, sir; foh, sir! Why, you
Are there no other tokens
Can gripe the sacred handle of our sceptre,
QUEEN MARGARET:
QUEEN ELIZABETH:
I saw them at the prison: a saucy friar,
The lark, that tirra-lyra chants,
Your valour puts well forth: pray, follow.
Eleven hours I spent to write it over,
use his master so, being perhaps, for aught I see,
footboy or a gentleman's lackey.
with her, truly it were an ill thing to be offered
No, no, no, no, no.
With gentle conference, soft and affable.
To have it added to the faults of mine,
By their own beauties; or, if love be blind,
And blindfold death not let me see my son.
And six or seven winters more respect
O single-soled jest, solely singular for the
Fine apparition! My quaint Ariel,
That will be never: tune your instrument.
Is common; every day some sailor's wife,
HENRY BOLINGBROKE:
Of government the properties to unfold,
BUCKINGHAM:
Well, no more.
I do confess it, and repent it, father.
Makes you think so.
Stay: whence are you?
First Gentleman:
Tullus Aufidius will appear well in these wars, his
Excels whatever yet you look'd upon
The slave's report is seconded; and more,
Be ready to direct these home alarms.
planted his honours in their eyes, and his actions
Thou art a lord, and nothing but a lord:
And ne'er have stol'n the breech from Lancaster.
KING RICHARD III:
When he had carried Rome and that we look'd
And is Aufidius with him? You are they
But is it true? or else is it your pleasure,
And wish his mistress were that kind of fruit
First Roman:
When have I injured thee? when done thee wrong?
DUCHESS OF YORK:
Than for his lineal royalties and to beg
O ho, O ho! would't had been done!
Doth make against me of this direful murder;
The citizens are up, and Tybalt slain.
So loving-jealous of his liberty.
No, I'll none of you.
That love should of a sudden take such hold?
And free from other misbegotten hate,
Appear i' the market-place nor on him put
Here comes the lady: O, so light a foot
God save the mark!--here on his manly breast:
And when I give occasion of offence,
My sons, God knows what hath bechanced them:
He should have leave to go away betimes,
KING RICHARD II:
Our purpose to them: and to our noble consul
Revive, look up, or I will die with thee!
They are dissolved: hang 'em!
Or never trust to what my tongue can do
Now, by my mother's son, and that's myself,
Heard ye not what an humble suppliant
We honour you with trouble: but we came
And shamefully by you my hopes are butcher'd.
the verity of it is in strong suspicion: has the king
I have seen thee stem, and thou hast oft beheld
My lord, I would that Thursday were to-morrow.
battery. He sits in his state, as a thing made for
And his pond fish'd by his next neighbour, by
Lords, give us leave: I'll try this widow's wit.
Ill in myself to see, and in thee seeing ill.
Turn giddy, and be holp by backward turning;
JOHN OF GAUNT:
What subject can give sentence on his king?
Iron of Naples hid with English gilt,
embassies; that they have seemed to be together,
And therefore here I mean to take my leave.
SEBASTIAN:
I'll have no halves; I'll bear it all myself.
Unless abroad they purchase great alliance?
To the end of reckoning.
Bearing their own misfortunes on the back
POLIXENES:
Thy lips are warm.
Give me another horse: bind up my wounds.
No, no; no man saw 'em.
Then well one more may fair Bianca have:
First Citizen:
KING RICHARD III:
Second Servingman:
JOHN OF GAUNT:
The worst is death, and death will have his day.
Give me some breath, some little pause, my lord
QUEEN ELIZABETH:
GLOUCESTER:
AUTOLYCUS:
Art thou gone so? love, lord, ay, husband, friend!
As the dead carcasses of unburied men
And therefore has he closely mew'd her up,
And pitch our evils there? O, fie, fie, fie!
DUKE VINCENTIO:
she'll be ashamed.
Come, sir, leave me your snatches, and yield me a
sewed up again; and that I'll prove upon thee,
To her I go, a jolly thriving wooer.
How darkly and how deadly dost thou speak!
That I yet know not?
KING EDWARD IV:
Draw near, ye people.
To wield old partisans, in hands as old,
How he refell'd me, and how I replied,--
As well we know your tenderness of heart
To him that hath more cause to be a mourner,
Where slept our scouts, or how are they seduced,
Bruised underneath the yoke of tyranny,
Stand not amazed: the prince will doom thee death,
Fear none of this: I think you know my fortunes
Lest you shall chance to whip your information
I have done so, but he's not to be found.
It's supper-time, my lord;
What say'st thou? hast thou not a word of joy?
Of no more soul nor fitness for the world
Excepting one, I would he were the best
Indeed, he should be a footman by the garments he
With all my heart
Second Murderer:
Proclaim an enshield beauty ten times louder
And made our footstool of security.
Thy lying tongue both numbers, I would say
Even to the general all-ending day.
matter merrily set down, or a very pleasant thing
DUKE VINCENTIO:
This is the hand which, with a vow'd contract,
Had slipp'd our claim until another age.
And rather like a dream than an assurance
For I have bought it with an hundred blows.
Against my kindred, brothers, and myself,
I'll do well yet. Thou old and true Menenius,
him carried away; and, which is more, within these
And, as occasion serves, this noble queen
The unreasonable fury of a beast:
Believe me, love, it was the nightingale.
Throng many doubtful hollow-hearted friends,
'Romeo is banished,' to speak that word,
That cropp'd the golden prime of this sweet prince,
The heaven sets spies upon us, will not have
Murder, stem murder, in the direst degree;
They laugh at. O my mother, mother! O!
Congeal'd with this, do make me wipe off both.
Be thou so too; and so break off your talk,
Look on my forces with a gracious eye;
GLOUCESTER:
And ere thou bid good night, to quit their griefs,
But love, fair looks and true obedience;
For well I wot ye blaze to burn them out
Thou smiling while he knit his angry brows:
Your husband so much sweat. Cominius,
Abhorred slave,
I would thou hadst my bones, and I thy news:
My heart is ten times lighter than my looks.
Second Officer:
his rope-tricks. I'll tell you what sir, an she
An I might live to see thee married once,
To answer thy best pleasure; be't to fly,
Commend my best obedience to the queen:
More criminal in thee than it,--so thou
When he would force it? Sure, it is no sin,
And he, and more
Can make seem pleasing to her tender years?
rogue, a villain, that fights by the book of
Nay, for a need, thus far come near my person:
As well as I had seen and heard him speak
Music and poesy use to quicken you;
Ay, therein Clarence shall not want his part.
Rome, especially his mother, may prevail with him.
I am sorry, sir, I have thus far stirr'd you: but
And but attended by a simple guard,
Say you so? then I shall pose you quickly.
Like to a lonely dragon, that his fen
As Angelo; even so may Angelo,
They lie in view; but have not spoke as yet.
So will ye, I am sure, that you love me.
More to know
I, by attorney, bless thee from thy mother
Nature teaches beasts to know their friends.
And now baits me! This brat is none of mine;
Brother, this is Sir John Montgomery,
How not your own desire?
DUKE OF YORK:
First Senator:
When thou wert king; who, travelling towards York,
Accursed, unhappy, wretched, hateful day!
However God or fortune cast my lot,
Divinely bent to meditation;
The pretty wretch left crying and said 'Ay.'
under her horse; thou shouldst have heard in how
Here's a good world the while! Why who's so gross,
Come, where be these gallants? who's at home?
Her tears will pierce into a marble heart;
Why grow the branches now the root is wither'd?
therefore, if thou art moved, thou runn'st away.
Sir Richard Ratcliff, let me tell thee this:
PETRUCHIO:
KATHARINA:
He's one honest enough: would all the rest were so!
Dighton and Forrest, whom I did suborn
This being granted in course,--and now follows
DUKE VINCENTIO:
DUKE VINCENTIO:
You are too senseless--obstinate, my lord,
And beat our watch, and rob our passengers;
His country's bowels out. And to poor we
BIONDELLO:
Like labour with the rest, where the other instruments
call ladies.
Within thine eyes sat twenty thousand deaths,
Advocate's the court-word for a pheasant: say you
I will confess to you that I love him.
To let thy tongue detect thy base-born heart?
Do me but right, and you must all confess
Worse than tears drown: beseech you all, my lords,
Thou hast undone thyself, thy son and me;
Well, let it strike.
I'll leave you: pray you, speak to 'em, I pray you,
Thou wilt fall backward when thou comest to age;
Third Citizen:
Our lands, our lives and all are Bolingbroke's,
Thou canst not speak of that thou dost not feel:
Heigh, my hearts! cheerly, cheerly, my hearts!
And we will not, heaven's offer we refuse,
Nay, rather, wilt thou draw thy forces hence,
That last is true; the sweeter rest was mine.
Helen and Hero hildings and harlots; Thisbe a grey
The field of Golgotha and dead men's skulls.
We are fit to bid her welcome.
HENRY BOLINGBROKE:
How now! what noise? That spirit's possessed with haste
controversy: as, for example, thou thyself art a
For such an injury would vex a very saint,
How chance the prophet could not at that time
Repair'd with double riches of content.
As doth a sail, fill'd with a fretting gust,
Second Murderer:
Thou sober-suited matron, all in black,
It shall be possible. Swear by this sword
Of love between your daughter and himself:
I very well agree with you in the hopes of him: it
Or I with grief and extreme age shall perish
My lord: he doth entreat your grace;
Where it did mark, it took; from face to foot
Marry, I thank your worship for it. Thou seest, thou
DUKE VINCENTIO:
Art thou against us, Duke of Exeter?
I think it cites us, brother, to the field,
Would I were sleep and peace, so sweet to rest!
Why, such is love's transgression.
This is the indictment of the good Lord Hastings;
Edward and Richard, you shall stay with me;
wilt tutor me from quarrelling!
bowling, it will please plentifully.
DUKE VINCENTIO:
And must be buried but as an intent
Off with my boots, you rogues! you villains, when?
in their hearts, that for their tongues to be
Asses are made to bear, and so are you.
That e'er I put between your holy looks
shall our poor city find: and all this is long of
Or I shall so be-mete thee with thy yard
Worthy his goodness. What might I have been,
I will stand betwixt you and danger.
I was too strict to make mine own away;
No, madam; we have cull'd such necessaries
Lieutenant:
Were liken'd oft to kingly sepulchres;
And would my father had left me no more!
To your good prayers will scarcely say amen.
Went they not quickly, I should die with laughing.
The very beams will dry those vapours up,
you before me again upon any complaint whatsoever;
A bird that will revenge upon you all:
DUKE OF AUMERLE:
GLOUCESTER:
garters of an indifferent knit: let them curtsy
To tell thee whence thou camest, of whom derived,
new ship to purge melancholy and air himself: for,
Thou'rt i' the right, girl; more o, that.
NATHANIEL:
A pair of bleeding-hearts; thereon engrave
Even to a full disgrace. Best of my flesh,
A bump as big as a young cockerel's stone;
Being capable of all ill! I pitied thee,
Refusing her grand hests, she did confine thee,
Which our profane hours here have stricken down.
How does the boy?
With reeky shanks and yellow chapless skulls;
Seize on him, Furies, take him to your torments!'
Whiles he was hastening, in the chase, it seems,
Away with scrupulous wit! now arms must rule.
Ay, sir, they be ready: the oats have eaten the horses.
KING RICHARD III:
Ay, what of that? it was my will and grant;
I promise, I am afraid to hear you tell it.
She will not.
Have left me issueless; and your father's blest,
And use of service, none; contract, succession,
I warrant your honour.
I cannot name; 'tis nameless woe, I wot.
Is proclamation made, that who finds Edward
This were a bed but cold to sleep so soundly.
Thus do I hope to shake King Henry's head.
You shall know now that I am in estimation; you shall
As loath to bear me to the slaughter-house.
With accusations, as I hear, more strong
A king of beasts, indeed; if aught but beasts,
When it is baked with frost.
Deep malice makes too deep incision;
And take her hence in horror.
Off goes his bonnet to an oyster-wench;
He's gentle and not fearful.
And yonder is the wolf that makes this spoil.
Persuade him that he hath been lunatic;
Grant me this boon.
That words seem'd buried in my sorrow's grave.
With all swift speed you must away to France.
The loss of such a lord includes all harm.
And affecting one sole throne,
Thy voice is thunder, but thy looks are humble.
FERDINAND:
That my woe-wearied tongue is mute and dumb,
Feeling so the loss,
In God's name, speak: when is the royal day?
Why, then, give way, dull clouds, to my quick curses!
Ay, why not? Grace is grace, despite of all
Places remote enough are in Bohemia,
For, by this light, whereby I see thy beauty,
3 KING HENRY VI
BUCKINGHAM:
so: ever your fresh whore and your powdered bawd:
Than have him hold that purpose and to put it
They shall have wars and pay for their presumption.
Death to thyself but to thy lewd-tongued wife,
And we shall have more wars before 't be long.
And cheers these hands that slew thy sire and brother
What was his reason?
His purpose surfeiting, he sends a warrant
And chattering pies in dismal discords sung.
In braving arms against thy sovereign.
BIONDELLO:
No word like 'pardon' for kings' mouths so meet.
left a purse alive in the whole army.
DUKE VINCENTIO:
Where all my sins are writ, and that's myself.
A bachelor, a handsome stripling too:
I warrant, an I should live a thousand years,
To bitterest enmity: so, fellest foes,
duke's officer. Prove this, thou wicked Hannibal, or
Well, bring our lady hither to our sight;
Cold fearful drops stand on my trembling flesh.
When every grief is entertain'd that's offer'd,
I' the commonwealth I would by contraries
And live you yet?
The second name of men, obeys his points
Where's that?
Of this most grievous guilty murder done!
greatness back?
And give sweet passage to my sinful soul!
You do blaspheme the good in mocking me.
What may she not? She may, yea, marry, may she--
He swung about his head and cut the winds,
O my sweet lady, pardon.
What wrong is this unto the prince your son!
As recompense of our dear services
And left thee there; where thou didst vent thy groans
Let me desire your company: he must come,
To buy apparel 'gainst the wedding-day.
A husband and a son thou owest to me;
In God's name what are you, and how came you hither?
My tongue should to thy ears not name my boys
This, my lord.
Here comes the furious Tybalt back again.
I was the chief that raised him to the crown,
How fiery and forward our pedant is!
For you have but mistook me all this while:
For she's not froward, but modest as the dove;
To sit about the coronation.
The plate, corn, revenues and moveables,
Have stoop'd my neck under your injuries,
Shall I live on to see this bastard kneel
In so entitling me, and no less honest
I would I knew thy heart.
The one has my pity; not a jot the other,
Ay, no; no, ay; for I must nothing be;
You are very sensible, and yet you miss my sense:
What, will you not suffer me? Nay, now I see
HORTENSIO:
Then, window, let day in, and let life out.
The worthiest men have done't?
Second Lord:
Against what should ensue.
Without sweat or endeavour: treason, felony,
Why in this woolvish toge should I stand here,
Some aqua vitae, ho! My lord! my lady!
He little thought of this divided friendship:
Where, if you bring not Marcius, we'll proceed
Withdraw you hence, my lord, I'll follow you.
And, like a Sinon, take another Troy.
And this is he was his adopted heir.
Bishop, farewell: shield thee from Warwick's frown;
And much I need to help you, if need were;
Master, it is no time to chide you now;
And I unjustly too, must grant it you
Much about cock-shut time, from troop to troop
Wise! why, no question but he was.
Even in the chair of state: belike he means,
Second Servant:
Are all call'd neat.--Still virginalling
For though usurpers sway the rule awhile,
That you are now a maid. Thus then in brief:
And seeing thou dost, I here divorce myself
To serve me last, that I may longest keep
Of gracious order, late come from the See
I promise you, I scarcely know myself:
QUEEN ELIZABETH:
Even in so short a space, my woman's heart
And seize himself; I say not, slaughter him,
'Tis not the trial of a woman's war,
And bid thee battle, Edward, if thou darest.
As I can say nay to thee for myself,
To execute the like upon thyself;
Ay, thou wast born to be a plague to men.
She speaks:
And I had rather glib myself than they
If I be not, heavens be revenged on me!
Very true, and but a month old.
I fear he will.
The hope thereof makes Clifford mourn in steel.
What's there?
To see these honours in possession.
First Gentleman:
This follows, if you will not change your purpose
In suffering thus thy brother to be slaughter'd,
Towards Chertsey, noble lord?
I'll know his grievance, or be much denied.
A rhyme I learn'd even now
In Margaret's battle at Saint Alban's slain?
And bid her hasten all the house to bed,
You break not sanctuary in seizing him.
But when they shall see, sir, his crest up again,
With age and altering rheums? can he speak? hear?
hands and they unwashed too, 'tis a foul thing.
Which thou shouldst bear me: only that name remains;
Know, Rome, that all alone Marcius did fight
GLOUCESTER:
LADY CAPULET:
The gain I seek is, quiet in the match.
I never yet beheld that special face
Lawn as white as driven snow;
If I know how or which way to order these affairs
Wooing poor craftsmen with the craft of smiles
Gives but the greater feeling to the worse:
And leave you to your graver steps. Hermione,
Swear, if thou darest.
He says, to veil full purpose.
KATHARINA:
instructions may be your guide. Let this Barnardine
She is hard by with twenty thousand men;
And this soft courage makes your followers faint.
To plague thee for thy foul misleading me.
Even now we heard the news: ah, could'st thou fly!
is risen: why stay we prating here? to the Capitol!
We three here art that ne'er shall meet again.
VINCENTIO:
More, she's a traitor and Camillo is
And, though unskilful, why not Ned and I
DUCHESS OF YORK:
I had an Edward, till a Richard kill'd him;
Are well foretold that danger lurks within.
Governs Lord Angelo; a man whose blood
To hear the piteous moan that Rutland made
For her poor brother's pardon.
And what obscured in this fair volume lies
Your bed-chamber.
As the recomforted through the gates. Why, hark you!
What more fearful?
The daughter of a king, our wife, and one
And will not promise her to any man
Your hand, my Perdita: so turtles pair,
By my head, here come the Capulets.
They'll be in scarlet straight at any news.
Why, then the maid is mine from all the world,
He hath abused your powers.
Why, am I dead? do I not breathe a man?
And with him are the Lord Aumerle, Lord Salisbury,
Go, masters, get you home; be not dismay'd:
And you too, Somerset and Montague,
About a prophecy, which says that 'G'
That best becomes the table. Pray you once more,
Then further, all dissembling set aside,
Of this sir-reverence love, wherein thou stick'st
Yea, and forswore himself,--which Jesu pardon!--
But be thou arm'd for some unhappy words.
And send him many years of sunshine days!
And call me father? better burn it now
I had thought, my lord, to have learn'd his health of you.
My lord, he fears you mean no good to him.
Was wont to cheer his dad in mutinies?
bearing my port, 'celsa senis,' that we might
Made glory base and sovereignty a slave,
If I have kill'd the issue of your womb,
have spoken truer than you purposed.
And lie full low, graved in the hollow ground.
our trade, and are now 'for the Lord's sake.'
A man that loves not me, nor none of you.
bawdry, which is strange; with such delicate
Know you this woman?
Were for myself: and so, my lord, adieu.
The breath of worldly men cannot depose
Which thou takest from me. When thou camest first,
These are a side that would be glad to have
I have remember'd me, thou's hear our counsel.
If, rather than to marry County Paris,
Lies he not bed-rid? and again does nothing
Basins and ewers to lave her dainty hands;
He who shall speak for her is afar off guilty
He hearkens after prophecies and dreams;
Their saucy sweetness that do coin heaven's image
KING HENRY VI:
Pardon, dear father.
Messenger:
Look you, sir; here comes your ghostly father: do
As to your soul seems good. Give me your hand:
Why, so: now have I done a good day's work:
To let me see them and to make me know
CORIOLANUS:
To dark dishonour's use thou shalt not have.
My rage is gone;
Her shall you hear disproved to her eyes,
That which in mean men we intitle patience
So stood the state when Henry the Sixth
business, I am therefore no courtier? I am courtier
By pardoning Rutland, my transgressing boy.
As thou hast made me by my dear lord's death!
KING EDWARD IV:
No word to save thee.
king's daughter is found: such a deal of wonder is
Sun that warms you here shall shine on me;
hath made him that gracious denial which he is most
How the world goes, that to the pace of it
But never once again turn back and fly.
To have't with saying 'Good morrow.'
vice in him. You must in no way say he is covetous.
Be of good cheer: mother, how fares your grace?
Come, come, my son, I'll bring thee on thy way:
Whom thou lovest best: see thou dissemble not.
I am joyful to hear of their readiness, and am the
First if all obstacles were cut away,
Both Tribunes:
And hardly kept our countrymen together,
And go we, brothers, to the man that took him,
And see him seated in the regal throne.
He should, for that, commit your godfathers:
And have prepared great store of wedding cheer;
I am always bound to you.
And, as I further have to understand,
Yet, for a greater confirmation,
And hear your mother's lamentation!
Whom he begot with child, let her appear,
And men ne'er spend their fury on a child.
We are yours i' the garden: shall's attend you there?
For whom, and not for Tybalt, Juliet pined.
He must be told on't, and he shall: the office
Does not approve me further, who was wont
Is for my better grace. Adieu, my lord:
And that thy summer bred us no increase,
How to deny them, who to advance and who
Not Romeo, prince, he was Mercutio's friend;
Say, I will love her everlastingly.
LORD ROSS:
I commanded the sleeves should be cut out and
But then Aufidius was within my view,
the--No; I know it begins with some other
All Citizens:
Win upon power and throw forth greater themes
Ready, with every nod, to tumble down
The earldom of Hereford, and the moveables
I am content to look on: what to speak,
O, is it so? But why commands the king
If it would please him come and marry her!'
That I shall blush in acting, and might well
Is richly furnished with plate and gold;
What, goodman boy! I say, he shall: go to;
A laughter.
KING RICHARD II:
Ay, there's the villany.
I'll tell you what, my cousin Buckingham,--
So many thousand times? Go, counsellor;
tying his new shoes with old riband? and yet thou
You, gracious couple, do: and then I lost--
POLIXENES:
And so offend him; for I tell you, sirs,
QUEEN ELIZABETH:
Under Cominius.
There art thou happy: Tybalt would kill thee,
Sleep dwell upon thine eyes, peace in thy breast!
Take him hence; to the rack with him! We'll touse you
But when he took a beggar to his bed,
Dukes, earls, lords, gentlemen; indeed, of all.
To speak before your time. Proceed.
And scarr'd the moon with splinters: here I clip
DUCHESS OF YORK:
should sing.
Bring forth that fatal screech-owl to our house,
And thus I prophesy, that many a thousand,
I'll pheeze you, in faith.
With mine own breath release all duty's rites:
The lustful Edward's title buried--
By Him that raised me to this careful height
Unless he do profane, steal, or usurp.
Ha' not you seen, Camillo,--
At least two glasses. The time 'twixt six and now
This music crept by me upon the waters,
To make her speak as move.
And I will turn thy falsehood to thy heart,
Conceiving you: were I but twenty-one,
against us.
To the greater bench: in a rebellion,
Fie, sirrah! a bawd, a wicked bawd!
That perish'd by the way: thoughts are no subjects;
Wouldst have me weep? why, now thou hast thy will:
Lest you mistake the heavens are o'er our heads.
bencher in the Capitol.
my pack will hold.
In the seat royal of this famous isle?
Thou know'st my daughter's of a pretty age.
We know thy charge, Brakenbury, and will obey.
I must be present at your conference.
No, uncle; but our crosses on the way
Give me the letter; I will look on it.
The sorrow that I have, by right is yours,
A child shall get a sire, if I fail not of my cunning.
If you know aught which does behove my knowledge
crooked face at it. I can't say your worships have
That by degrees we mean to look into,
VINCENTIO:
Let hell make crook'd my mind to answer it.
Fights dragon-like, and does achieve as soon
I may not, verily.
I'll not believe but they ascend the sky,
Bring me to hear them speak, where I may be concealed.
Is lighted on poor Hastings' wretched head!
Let's write good angel on the devil's horn:
Your brows are blacker; yet black brows, they say,
And smilest upon the stroke that murders me.
How! she is busy and she cannot come!
You shall have none ill, sir; for I'll try if they
For standing by when Richard stabb'd her son.
MAMILLIUS:
My Lord of Gloucester, I have too long borne
Hath promised me to help me to another,
DUKE VINCENTIO:
And so your follies fight against yourself.
Lonely, apart. But here it is: prepare
and admiring the nothing of it. So that in this
Which way to be prevented, if to be;
As dice are to be wish'd by one that fixes
The people will remain uncertain whilst
A cold and drowsy humour, for no pulse
Have just our theme of woe; but for the miracle,
Second Gentleman:
Like to my followers in prosperity,
Shame serves thy life and doth thy death attend.
the streets,
Poor queen and son, your labour is but lost;
At a crack'd drachm! Cushions, leaden spoons,
I'll answer thee in any fair degree,
Twelve several times, and I have nightly since
Hath in eternal darkness folded up.
Come, madam, you must straight to Westminster,
The king is not himself, but basely led
This let alone will all the rest confound.
And joy comes well in such a needy time:
Nay, bear three daughters: by your leave I speak it,
From the most gracious regent of this land,
Pale, pale as ashes, all bedaub'd in blood,
O, he is wounded; I thank the gods for't.
For the deposing of a rightful king.
KING LEWIS XI:
But that I do not.
That fear to hate, and hate turns one or both
Guard it, I pray thee, with a lurking adder
Even from this instant, banish him our city,
But for the sunset of my brother's son
wear out a good wholesome forenoon in hearing a
What, you notorious villain, didst thou never see
First, let her show her face, and after speak.
Indeed, it does stink in some sort, sir; but yet,
I must needs wake you; Lady! lady! lady!
CORIOLANUS:
Here comes Bohemia.
As merry as you will.
If thy revengeful heart cannot forgive,
3 KING HENRY VI
My husband lives, that Tybalt would have slain;
We have ever your good word.
First Huntsman:
She may, Lord Rivers! why, who knows not so?
do you know me?
people against the senators, patricians, and nobles.
To have her honour true than your suspicion,
And that thou oft provokest; yet grossly fear'st
KING RICHARD III:
And all my followers to the eager foe
What is the matter?
What's he that now is going out of door?
As for another secret close intent,
That they may crush down with a heavy fall
Now is your time: speak loud and kneel before him.
It shall be so, it shall be so.
And this the regal seat: possess it, York;
GLOUCESTER:
Be not so hot; the duke
And then with kind embracements, tempting kisses,
Who, earnest in the service of my God,
This was my wish: 'Be thou,' quoth I, ' accursed,
comes there any more of it?
dangerous thing; and every man that means to live
That beasts shall tremble at thy din.
Must to Corioli back: send us to Rome
For time hath set a blot upon my pride.
Do lace the severing clouds in yonder east:
May send forth plenteous tears to drown the world!
But by his mother was perforce withheld.
'Thus saith the duke, thus hath the duke inferr'd;'
The jewel that we find, we stoop and take't
I wish no better
You love the breeder better than the male.
I'd not have given a doit. Hark, how they joy!
Hear me with patience but to speak a word.
Lies in their purses, and whoso empties them
What thinkest thou, will our friends prove all true?
I will be gone, sir, and not trouble you.
He had, before this last expedition, twenty-five
KING RICHARD II:
We were as twinn'd lambs that did frisk i' the sun,
And apprehend thee for a felon here.
BUCKINGHAM:
Come quickly, Montague, or I am dead.
And made Verona's ancient citizens
Hath broke his staff, resign'd his stewardship,
The Tower, the Tower.
Perhaps thou wilt object my holy oath:
O Ratcliff, I have dream'd a fearful dream!
He was? Why, so! go all which way it will!
O Doricles,
Hath now himself met with the fall of leaf:
Will have your tongue too. This is a creature,
There is an air comes from her: what fine chisel
Katharina the curst!
Falsely to draw me in these vile suspects.
Which for some reasons I would not have seen.
DUKE VINCENTIO:
The first departing of the king for Ireland.
conscience take it.
And Montague our topmost; what of him?
The valiant heart is not whipt out of his trade.
And here is not a creature but myself,
Allow their officers and are content
AUTOLYCUS:
PETRUCHIO:
How high a pitch his resolution soars!
Stand we in good array; for they no doubt
To women of all fashion; lastly, hurried
In being so blest! There may be in the cup
DUKE VINCENTIO:
KING RICHARD III:
Lords, knights, and gentlemen, what I should say
True, when avoided grace makes destiny:
No longer Earl of March, but Duke of York:
put in the book of virtue!
At thy choice, then:
speak no more. Away with those giglots too, and
Send to her, by the man that slew her brothers,
Fit thy consent to my sharp appetite;
Strike up the drum; cry 'Courage!' and away.
Where is the king?
Aiming, belike, at your interior hatred,
For, by my soul, I'll ne'er acknowledge thee,
Thou wilt prove his. Take him to prison, officer:
The manner and the purpose of his treason;
ALL SERVING-MEN:
And, Montague, come you this afternoon,
I do beseech you send for some of them.
It may be so; but yet my inward soul
I do repent me, as it is an evil,
True! pow, wow.
In Brittany, received intelligence
Is he come?
SEBASTIAN:
At an unusual hour?
When you depart, and save your thanks. How say you?
Nay, go not from us thus.
very day receives letters of strange tenor;
See, how she leans her cheek upon her hand!
Master Three-pile the mercer, for some four suits of
Ah, that same pale hard-hearted wench, that Rosaline.
But we will plant some other in the throne,
Unto the brother of your loving bride;
Look to the baked meats, good Angelica:
I'll to the queen: please you,
And my large kingdom for a little grave,
What have you to do here, fellow? Pray you, avoid
PETRUCHIO:
I will to Venice; Sunday comes apace:
KING RICHARD III:
And weak we are and cannot shun pursuit.
Mine arms about that body, where against
Amen, sir: to my poor unworthy notice,
The curse my noble father laid on thee,
Shall win my love: and so I take my leave,
DUKE VINCENTIO:
Are clamorous groans, which strike upon my heart,
Who please to come and hear. For life, I prize it
Soft! I will go along;
GLOUCESTER:
First Servant:
Whither away, or where is thy abode?
I think not so.
Or hand of man hath done; therefore I keep it
And God, not we, hath plagued thy bloody deed.
More honourable state, more courtship lives
Now here a period of tumultuous broils.
Trail your steel pikes. Though in this city he
As long as you or I yet he must die.
The very beadsmen learn to bend their bows
Ever right.
It is: and lo, where youthful Edward comes!
To bear his image and renew his glories!
were sensible as your finger, that you might leave
O, look! methinks I see my cousin's ghost
Second Gentleman:
It is a bawdy planet, that will strike
Have leave and leisure to make love to her
KING RICHARD III:
Though some of you with Pilate wash your hands
For so I see she must be, 'fore Leontes:
And I'll no longer be a Capulet.
Why I should welcome such a guest as grief,
then come back to my master's as soon as I can.
KING RICHARD II:
Do get their children; but in this case of wooing,
'Fore your own eyes and ears?
Than my poor life must answer.
And, brother, here's the Earl of Wiltshire's blood,
And Somerset, with Oxford fled to her:
Then, as I said, the duke, great Bolingbroke,
As with a saint.
Second Murderer:
To execute the noble duke at Calais.
should buy first, as if my trinkets had been
Better be held nor more attain'd than by
I, that am rudely stamp'd, and want love's majesty
More than you doubt the change on't, that prefer
Our dukedom till God please to send the rest.
I bring thee tidings of the prince's doom.
Maintains such falsehood, then turn tears to fires;
would make it flame again: for the nobles receive
And as for you yourself, our quondam queen,
one out of the table.
Nor made to court an amorous looking-glass;
My chamber-councils, wherein, priest-like, thou
Yea, my lord. How brooks your grace the air,
The jury, passing on the prisoner's life,
They are not such as you.
Should be so tyrannous and rough in proof!
Wither one rose, and let the other flourish;
I have no further with you.' Was not this mockery?
And issue forth and bid them battle straight.
Go, after, after, cousin Buckingham.
'Tis not the devil's crest.
Villain, I'll make thee safe.
Madam, we did: he desires to make atonement
A' was a merry man--took up the child:
I charge you see that he be forthcoming.
pray, can you read any thing you see?
That lies enclosed in this trunk which you
would 'twere done!
Grumio gave order how it should be done.
Peace, peace, Mercutio, peace!
Why, is he not with the queen?
She better would have fitted me or Clarence:
KING RICHARD III:
Thou wouldst have left thy dearest heart-blood there,
Perform'd to point the tempest that I bade thee?
Servile to all the skyey influences,
My heart as great, my reason haply more,
First Servingman:
That, lying by the violet in the sun,
Bid him shed tears, as being overjoy'd
And soothe the devil that I warn thee from?
For hunting was his daily exercise.
My tongue hath but a heavier tale to say.
She hath, and in that sparing makes huge waste,
Thy gown? why, ay: come, tailor, let us see't.
And peg thee in his knotty entrails till
Second Murderer:
And thou, good goddess Nature, which hast made it
O holy friar, O, tell me, holy friar,
Come to me, Tyrrel, soon at after supper,
Of both the Sicils and Jerusalem,
With more of thine: this love that thou hast shown
Third Watchman:
Hold you there: farewell.
That look into me with considerate eyes:
A parasite, a keeper back of death,
You have, I know, petition'd all the gods
But when we saw our sunshine made thy spring,
Lord mayor, the reason we have sent--
Must bear my beating to his grave--shall join
And future ages groan for this foul act;
The same you are not, which, for your best ends,
To save this brat's life?
Now, for a while farewell, good Duke of York.
Nothing is done to purpose. Therefore, beseech you,--
And trust me, love, in my eye so do you:
Where is he wounded?
Be thus to them.
Anthony Woodville, her brother there,
Resolve my doubt. You twain, of all the rest,
I am barr'd, like one infectious. My third comfort
Of whom he's chief, with all the size that verity
JOHN OF GAUNT:
That's my good son: but where hast thou been, then?
In all his own desires; nay, let him choose
Where thou shalt rest, that thou mayst hear of us
if this be not a lawful case for me to leave his
In my just censure, in my true opinion!
Each one already blazing by our meeds,
The Duke of York, to know what pricks you on
Could not take truce with the unruly spleen
Till we can clear these ambiguities,
For by his face straight shall you know his heart.
The jealous o'erworn widow and herself,
I pray thee, good Mercutio, let's retire:
So just is God, to right the innocent.
The sacred honour of himself, his queen's,
notorious bawd.
QUEEN ELIZABETH:
DUKE VINCENTIO:
Madam, I'll sing.
Now humble as the ripest mulberry
Away with her; go, bear her hence perforce.
Stir with the lark to-morrow, gentle Norfolk.
Yes; keep you warm.
That after hours with sorrow chide us not!
From all such devils, good Lord deliver us!
Crowns what you are doing in the present deed,
NORTHUMBERLAND:
A sure destruction.
The gods preserve our noble tribunes! Come.
Nor hast thou pleasure to be cross in talk,
Lend thine ear.
A pleasing cordial, princely Buckingham,
It issues from the rancour of a villain,
Murder thy breath in the middle of a word,
And bids me speak of nothing but despair.
GLOUCESTER:
In my green velvet coat, my dagger muzzled,
You thus have publish'd me! Gentle my lord,
My father's bears more toward the market-place;
I promised here to meet.
O, that must be
She hath prevented me. Here, Signior Tranio.
What are you, sir?
Pardon is all the suit I have in hand.
Come, is the bride ready to go to church?
to continue now, thou varlet; thou art to continue.
LADY CAPULET:
Hannibal! I respected with her before I was married
Or whether 'twas report of her success;
Let's see; I think 'tis now some seven o'clock,
Ay, ay. thou wouldst be gone to join with Richmond:
We do request your kindest ears, and after,
First Murderer:
I cannot judge: but to conclude with truth,
To no apparent likelihood of breach,
Look back, defend thee, here are enemies.
Two of thy name, both Dukes of Somerset,
O, well begg'd!
great maker of cuckolds.
Gentlemen and friends, I thank you for your pains:
Or daring-hardy as to touch the lists,
You, that are king, though he do wear the crown,
Here comes Signior Claudio, led by the provost to
My lord, you do me shameful injury,
Why, how now, father!
And lack of temper'd judgment afterward.
on no water.
To your own bents dispose you: you'll be found,
For God's sake, a pot of small ale.
GLOUCESTER:
Why let it strike?
Speak briefly then;
That I was not ignoble of descent;
I would they were, that I might die at once;
Yet hath he in him such a mind of honour.
Your worship in that sense may call him 'man.'
KING RICHARD III:
GLOUCESTER:
Gallop apace, you fiery-footed steeds,
To give my hand opposed against my heart
Should yet say 'Sir, no going.' Verily,
Nor is your firm resolve unknown to me,
Do you so, sir? And was the duke a fleshmonger, a
That's likewise part of my intelligence; but, I
And not a tinker nor Christophero Sly.
Benvolio, who began this bloody fray?
God bless thee; and put meekness in thy mind,
No, good sweet sir; no, I beseech you, sir: I have
Lest in our need he might infect another
The augurer tells me we shall have news to-night.
O sir, you are not right: have you not known
But is he gracious in the people's eye?
Business, my lord! I think most understand
That's he indeed.
How camest thou hither, tell me, and wherefore?
I will not hear thee speak. This man, Aufidius,
Look, as I blow this feather from my face,
And neither heaven nor man grieve at the mercy.
Being a divine, a ghostly confessor,
We two, my lord,
Peace, I have done. God mark thee to his grace!
KING EDWARD IV:
KING RICHARD II:
QUEEN MARGARET:
The benefit of our levies, answering us
That laid the sentence of dread banishment
O love! O life! not life, but love in death!
Which is the wiser here? Justice or Iniquity? Is
not give you three-pence again.
if bawdy talk offend you, we'll have very little of
Nay, if the devil have given thee proofs for sin,
I have had feeling of my cousin's wrongs
corrupt her; only he hath made an essay of her
Unfold the imagined happiness that both
Say their great enemy is gone, and they
QUEEN ELIZABETH:
Moved! in good time: let him that moved you hither
I shall discharge to the life.
That shall be wood and wedded in a day.
To tear with thunder the wide cheeks o' the air,
DUCHESS OF YORK:
Touching the jointure that your king must make,
The clock struck nine when I did send the nurse;
That's lesser than a little.
And, if the rest be true which I have heard,
And do you tell me of a woman's tongue,
For few men rightly temper with the stars:
The abhorr'd ingredient to his eye, make known
He hugg'd me in his arms, and swore, with sobs,
Now He that made me knows I see thee ill;
LADY ANNE:
That almost freezes up the heat of life:
Go, nurse, go with her: we'll to church to-morrow.
notable fellow.
NORTHUMBERLAND:
Thy son I kill'd for his presumption.
Tongue-tied ambition, not replying, yielded
These are their tutors: bid them use them well.
The dibble in earth to set one slip of them;
Guiltier than him they try. What's open made to justice,
The ditty does remember my drown'd father.
As you threw caps up will he tumble down,
daughter of most rare note: the report of her is
Now, sister, what's the comfort?
LORD FITZWATER:
In hateful practise. First, his integrity
Either of you to be the other's end.
'Tybalt is dead, and Romeo--banished;'
Unto the rigour of severest law.
You have holp to ravish your own daughters and
And, Henry, hadst thou sway'd as kings should do,
For, to yourself, what you do know, you must.
And durst not once peep out.
I would they were abed!
GLOUCESTER:
And that unhappy king, my master, whom
Second Citizen:
Harry of Hereford, Lancaster and Derby
Seeking for Richmond in the throat of death.
Sirrah, come hither: 'tis no time to jest,
With all the nearest things to my heart, as well
Even such, they say, as stand in narrow lanes,
Yet he shall have a noble memory. Assist.
What though I kill'd her husband and her father?
Second Servingman:
If I pervert your course. Who's here?
sworn brother, the people, to earn a dearer
Nay, look not big, nor stamp, nor stare, nor fret;
KING EDWARD IV:
No joyful tongue gave him his welcome home:
QUEEN ELIZABETH:
To breakfast once forth of my company.
Ay, for a turtle, as he takes a buzzard.
Claudio, whom here you have warrant to execute, is
wounds upon him.
Most sure, the goddess
Upon my target three fair-shining suns.
In peace was never gentle lamb more mild,
mulled, deaf, sleepy, insensible; a getter of more
He hath songs for man or woman, of all sizes; no
support usurers; repeal daily any wholesome act
Nurse! What should she do here?
Why, no; for he hath made a solemn vow
Teach her the way.
Of woeful ages long ago betid;
My daughter's mother thinks it with her soul.
What! have I twice said well? when was't before?
Be not as common fools; if you are not,
If not most mortal to him. But, let it come.
You lie, in faith; for you are call'd plain Kate,
GLOUCESTER:
quoth a'? Gentlemen, can any of you tell me where I
Withdraw yourselves.
deliver you more. How goes it now, sir? this news
Where I must take like seat unto my fortune,
And were I strong, I would not shun their fury:
Third Servingman:
A place below the first: for what miscarries
Let me have war, say I; it exceeds peace as far as
Be executed by nine to-morrow morning:
Why came I hither but to that intent?
Do not swear at all;
We have deserved it.
Among them know you one Vincentio?
Did this break-from her: 'Good Antigonus,
Within me grief hath kept a tedious fast;
But by some unlook'd accident cut off!
May it please you, lords, to grant the commons' suit.
KING RICHARD III:
As soft as dove's down and as white as it,
sir. My master hath appointed me to go to Saint
KING RICHARD III:
'Tis one thing to be tempted, Escalus,
Second Murderer:
Silence! one word more
What, shall we stab him as he sleeps?
Thou camest here to complain.
And Richard but a ragged fatal rock?
This love feel I, that feel no love in this.
Became a bull, and bellow'd; the green Neptune
Bring forth these men.
GLOUCESTER:
And take our leave, until we meet in heaven.
Observed his courtship to the common people;
Thou didst usurp my place, and dost thou not
use me with estimation.
'Tis government that makes them seem divine;
KING RICHARD II:
Accursed be he that seeks to make them foes!
What, did he marry me to famish me?
And help to dress your sister's chamber up:
What is the matter, my lord?
--thou must think there's a necessity in't,--and
That Angelo is an adulterous thief,
Which thou wilt propagate, to have it prest
Tongue-tied, our queen?
Unto a mad-brain rudesby full of spleen;
The princes both make high account of you;
Are of two houses: lawful mercy
Jewel of children, seen this hour, he had pair'd
That respites me a life, whose very comfort
Three or four miles about, else had I, sir,
I, that did never weep, now melt with woe
Lo, at their births good stars were opposite.
Sleeping and waking, O, defend me still!
But now the Duke of Buckingham and I
sayest thou to this tune, matter and method? Is't
Because in quarrel of the house of York
Swear then by something that thou hast not wrong'd.
eyes; there was speech in their dumbness, language
My sovereign mistress clouded so, without
HENRY BOLINGBROKE:
And will she yet debase her eyes on me,
KING RICHARD III:
That if about this hour he make his way
That our renowned Rome, whose gratitude
A vessel rides fast by, but not prepared
Ay, with such gifts that heaven shall share with you.
And vows revenge as spacious as between
I know your virtue hath a licence in't,
First Murderer:
Or die renowned by attempting it.
Call you me daughter? now, I promise you
KING HENRY VI:
Keep thou the napkin, and go boast of this:
So to offend him still. This night's the time
business is performed, and remain, as he says, your
hard for him; I have heard him say so himself.
But let us hence, my sovereign, to provide
And we mean well in going to this mask;
Fair Leda's daughter had a thousand wooers;
Did not attend him as we rode? I think
DUKE VINCENTIO:
I do the wrong, and first begin to brawl.
Sometime in Greece,--
Master Barnardine!
Yea, say you so?
Now Margaret's curse is fall'n upon our heads,
Alla stoccata carries it away.
Madam, in happy time, what day is that?
These eyes could never endure sweet beauty's wreck;
A mile before his tent fall down, and knee
My grained ash an hundred times hath broke
The new-heal'd wound of malice should break out,
To keep that oath were more impiety
I smell the trick on't.
Ah, simple men, you know not what you swear!
Why linger we? let us lay hands upon him.
Had she such power,
How in his suit he scorn'd you; but your loves,
To shun the danger that his soul divines.
DUKE VINCENTIO:
The doors of breath, seal with a righteous kiss
Yet not so deeply as to thee belongs,
Will so your accusation overweigh,
Were by the swords of common soldiers slain.
To say 'not guilty:' mine integrity
PETRUCHIO:
The Countess Richmond, good my Lord of Derby.
And then to dinner. You are passing welcome,
What if it be a poison, which the friar
We are blest in this man, as I may say, even blest.
Thine own particular wrongs and stop those maims
Fie, what a spendthrift is he of his tongue!
Have you collected them by tribes?
It is so, sir: truly, I have forgot you.
from all: the rest
Write sorrow on the bosom of the earth,
Saw'st thou not, boy, how Silver made it good
So far be mine, my most redoubted lord,
Lucentio is your name; of whence, I pray?
And entertain a cheerful disposition.
Besides, I heard the banish'd Norfolk say
With a proud heart he wore his humble weeds.
Peace, Tranio!
A man of Claudio's years; his beard and head
My liege, the Duke of Buckingham is taken;
Where is she? and how doth she? and what says
And bid Bianca make her ready straight;
And given unto the house of York such head
Because my power is weak and all ill left:
Peace, impudent and shameless Warwick, peace,
And what I spake, I spake it to my face.
'Twas you we laughed at.
And hung their rotten coffins up in chains,
Upon his passion; let myself and fortune
Have lost a brace of kinsmen: all are punish'd.
Return him here again. Go with him, provost.
But then I sigh; and, with a piece of scripture,
O, what a beast was I to chide at him!
With them, the two brave bears, Warwick and Montague,
Enforce him with his envy to the people,
Which God defend that I should wring from him!
Wherein your lady and your humble wife
I told her so, my lord,
Swinge me them soundly forth unto their husbands:
I'll steal away.
O God, I have an ill-divining soul!
And buried once, why not upon my head?
thing. The wills above be done! but I would fain
And, for I should not deal in her soft laws,
First Murderer:
KING HENRY VI:
creeping thing.
Painting, sir, I have heard say, is a mystery; and
make you dance. 'Zounds, consort!
GLOUCESTER:
I have too few to take my leave of you,
DUKE OF YORK:
Good even to my ghostly confessor.
And then let Kate be chaste and Dian sportful!
And takest it all for jest.
And bid my friend, for joy of this good news,
Since, of ourselves, ourselves are choleric,
And sometime comes she with a tithe-pig's tail
But this most cruel usage of your queen,
I'll tell him of you.
Whose hollow womb inherits nought but bones.
As therefore kept to do so.
That lift your vassal hands against my head
The liquid drops of tears that you have shed
Thou goest to Coventry, there to behold
Be taken from the people.
All unavoided is the doom of destiny.
Caius Marcius.
Or my divine soul answer it in heaven.
Forerunning more requital.
CORIOLANUS:
An offer, uncle, that we will accept:
O bitter consequence,
By drunken prophecies, libels and dreams,
You have taken it wiselier than I meant you should.
VINCENTIO:
As snow in harvest. Thou deceivest thyself:
First Servant:
Why should calamity be full of words?
For first he was contract to Lady Lucy--
KING RICHARD III:
Shall have a high reward, and he his life?
That calumny doth use--O, I am out--
Third Citizen:
Of general ignorance,--it must omit
Come, sirs, convey me to the block of shame;
GLOUCESTER:
Why, cousin, wert thou regent of the world,
There shall I rest secure from force and fraud.
Daughter, well met.
Farewell, York's wife, and queen of sad mischance:
To make a second fall of cursed man?
That in these several places of the city
Edward, what satisfaction canst thou make
As Priam was for all his valiant sons.
When she did suckle Hector, look'd not lovelier
And that the lean abhorred monster keeps
I must hear from thee every day in the hour,
Evermore cross'd and cross'd; nothing but cross'd!
PRINCE EDWARD:
Inferring arguments of mighty force.
Where is your sister, and Hortensio's wife?
To his concupiscible intemperate lust,
This we prescribe, though no physician;
Tie leaden pounds to's heels. Proceed by process;
Should ask, if Katharina should be his wife,
Not shine to-day! Why, what is that to me
In earnestness to see him: seld-shown flamens
Of sorrow or of joy?
Driving back shadows over louring hills:
And leave the world for me to bustle in!
His daughter is to be brought by you to the supper.
Some certain of your brethren roar'd and ran
HENRY BOLINGBROKE:
BUCKINGHAM:
for the defence of a town, our general is excellent.
My household stuff, my field, my barn,
His golden uncontroll'd enfranchisement,
Then was your sin of heavier kind than his.
The wanton stings and motions of the sense,
Now, sir, is your name Menenius?
My ill suspicion. This is your son-in-law,
May do much danger. Friar John, go hence;
Than of his outward show; which, God he knows,
The mirth o' the feast. Or I'll be thine, my fair,
The leaves and fruit maintain'd with beauty's sun,
We'll keep him here: then what is that to him?
Where no man never comes but that sad dog
O place and greatness! millions of false eyes
But to his foe supposed he must complain,
Ghost of Prince Edward:
Pisa renown'd for grave citizens
The selfsame sun that shines upon his court
Then, dreadful trumpet, sound the general doom!
Second Senator:
AUTOLYCUS:
Speed how it will. I shall ere long have knowledge
With that dear blood which it hath fostered;
And send them thither: but at hand, at hand,
I am going to visit the prisoner. Fare you well.
For it engenders choler, planteth anger;
For young hot colts being raged do rage the more.
Sir, but you shall come to it, by your honour's
Who lack not virtue, no, nor power, but that
this man made you, sir?
Having the fearful flying hare in sight,
Bring forth the parties of suspicion.
One thing or other: when thou didst not, savage,
Engage it to the trial, if thou darest.
And were I any thing but what I am,
And ere this hand, by thee to Romeo seal'd,
Envelope you, good Provost! Who call'd here of late?
MAMILLIUS:
Torments him so, that he will sure run mad.
Antony, and Potpan!
Such duty as the subject owes the prince
To Salisbury; the rest march on with me.
It likes me well. Biondello, hie you home,
For his advantage that I dearly love.
And you the mutinous members; for examine
He receives comfort like cold porridge.
By circumstance, to curse thy cursed self.
On fair ground
No more amazement: tell your piteous heart
Once more, adieu; the rest let sorrow say.
Alas, I look'd when some of you should say,
There shall no figure at such rate be set
That he is thus cut off. Please it your honours
Will maintain it with some little cost.
Than one on's ears to hear it? Proceed, Cominius.
For blood of ours, shed blood of Montague.
With that, methoughts, a legion of foul fiends
Thou know'st, was banish'd: for one thing she did
HORTENSIO:
First Lord:
My lords, before it pleased his majesty
The banish'd Bolingbroke repeals himself,
But come, my lord, let us away.
Where dwellest thou?
What I have spoke, or thou canst worse devise.
I came to serve a king and not a duke.
God give him joy!
To unpath'd waters, undream'd shores, most certain
Not she which burns in't. I'll not call you tyrant;
Travel you far on, or are you at the farthest?
Gentleman:
Springs not from Edward's well-meant honest love,
And with his charity slain.
that's no matter, the greater part carries it. I
And therefore hath the wind-swift Cupid wings.
your appointment, go in your place; if the encounter
Thou darest not this and that to prove more fortunes
About it; for it stands me much upon,
What do you prate of service?
I shall inform them.
And little look'd for at your helping hands.
I beseech your honour, ask me.
For 'tis the mind that makes the body rich;
Not yet on summer's death, nor on the birth
CORIOLANUS:
DUKE VINCENTIO:
How now! what mean'st thou, that thou help'st me not?
Please ye we may contrive this afternoon,
She may do more, sir, than denying that:
Again possess her corpse, and on this stage,
How know you that?
Whither the queen intends. Forward; away!
With what contempt he wore the humble weed,
Our town of Cicester in Gloucestershire;
As often as we eat. By the elements,
BUCKINGHAM:
And all probation will make up full clear,
To win our daughter.
Luke's, to bid the priest be ready to come against
Imp out our drooping country's broken wing,
loves not the common people.
son's pranks too; who, I may say, is no honest man,
We set the axe to thy usurping root;
Of middle summer, and I think they are given
What's the news? what's the news?
First Murderer:
Then never trust me, if I be afeard.
For which your honour and your faith is pawn'd;
The devil take Henry of Lancaster and thee!
Hath made her break out into terms of rage!
Saint Francis be my speed! how oft to-night
and seen the spider.
Meet on the market-place. We'll attend you there:
Be eloquent in my behalf to her.
On pure heart's love to greet the tender princes.
I fear me both are false.
matter to alter it. You have an unspeakable
Your uncle York is join'd with Bolingbroke,
Methinks a woman of this valiant spirit
VINCENTIO:
Somerset, Somerset, for Lancaster!
Are our carnations and streak'd gillyvors,
Lawful as eating.
Thy woes will make them sharp, and pierce like mine.
You have drawn oaths from him not to stay. You, sir,
Which blood, like sacrificing Abel's, cries,
Of that report which I so oft have heard.
'Tis thought the king is dead; we will not stay.
Where have I been! Nay, how now! where are you?
And so to Tripoli, if God lend me life.
Well, then, imprison him: if imprisonment be the
NORTHUMBERLAND:
Achieve the elder, set the younger free
KING HENRY VI:
Why, what is it, my lord?
Execute all things; for no kind of traffic
To think it should leave crying and say 'Ay.'
Unsheathe your sword, and dub him presently.
Coriolanus' exile. Now he's coming;
BIONDELLO:
Swear by the duty that you owe to God--
Why, how now, long-tongued Warwick! dare you speak?
I will appear, and fight.
I think, or in any religion.
Pray, let us go.
your tongues, and not a word more.
Take special care my greetings be deliver'd.
'Tis thought your deer does hold you at a bay.
There lie, and there thy character: there these;
That I must love a loathed enemy.
Gentle son Edward, thou wilt stay with me?
Your legs did better service than your hands.
Polixenes for Leontes: O thou thing!
For in a minute there are many days:
More welcome is the stroke of death to me
DUKE VINCENTIO:
Thou art inclined to sleep; 'tis a good dulness,
I' the city of kites and crows! What an ass it is!
I' the plain way of his merit.
Is straight and slender and as brown in hue
You are pleasant, sir, and speak apace.
By your firm promise: Gremio is out-vied.
But that is lost for being Richard's friend,
The queen this day here holds her parliament,
And gracious be the issue!
And usest none in that true use indeed
Why, in good time.
rebused your worship?
Prithee, let him.
So shall my virtue be his vice's bawd;
My daughter he hath wedded: I will die,
Than when I feel and see her no farther trust her;
Sometime she gallops o'er a courtier's nose,
Or stronger for your need.
I confess two sleeves.
And she steal love's sweet bait from fearful hooks:
but yet I will be content to be a lawful hangman. I
And let the soul forth that adoreth thee,
Have I heard groan and drop: then know me not,
Yea, his dread trident shake.
CORIOLANUS:
not in't; but they themselves are o' the mind, if it
Mine were the very cipher of a function,
is washed with them, but relents not.
CORIOLANUS:
BIONDELLO:
I am that Isabella and his sister.
GLOUCESTER:
Let me be ignorant, and in nothing good,
Like trees bedash'd with rain: in that sad time
Where is my wife?
My prayers on the adverse party fight;
find when he comes home. But what talk I of this?
Nor I, ungracious, speak unto myself
To the shore, that o'er his wave-worn basis bow'd,
You shout me forth
LADY GREY:
I call upon thee.
The people are abused; set on. This paltering
Might have found easy fines: but there to end
stand him but a little, he will throw a figure in
--what will you adventure
doubtless, and of antiquity too; bawd-born.
LADY CAPULET:
Alas! what poor ability's in me
CORIOLANUS:
King Richard, he is in the mighty hold
No, Warwick, thou art worthy of the sway,
Or else my heart concealing it will break,
Yet, Warwick, in despite of all mischance,
The trick of's frown, his forehead, nay, the valley,
It is my will, the which if thou respect,
Of bloody strokes and mortal-staring war.
Thus it is: the Volsces have an army forth; against
Now, ere the sun advance his burning eye,
By heaven, I will tear thee joint by joint
Come hither, man. I see that thou art poor:
I hear that news, my lord.
Is not his heir a well-deserving son?
In your embowell'd bosoms, this foul swine
were to make a monster of the multitude: of the
PETRUCHIO:
QUEEN ELIZABETH:
And how my men will stay themselves from laughter
Good Marcius home again.
God save your lordship!
Or, being open, put into his hands
I'll leave you to your fortune and be gone
The gods preserve you both!
Yes; I do think that you might pardon him,
howsoever you colour it in being a tapster, are you
I must be answer'd. Dost thou hear, Camillo,
strawberries.
It was his word: O, he would miss it rather
She will not stay the siege of loving terms,
To County Paris: then comes she to me,
Or is the adder better than the eel,
by threes. He's to make his requests by
Was crown'd in Paris but at nine months old.
Such troops of citizens to speak with him,
To one that can my part in him advertise;
Troth, sir, she hath eaten up all her beef, and she
Two kinsmen digg'd their graves with weeping eyes.
Take thou some new infection to thy eye,
More than my brother: 'Ay,' quoth my uncle
Lend favourable ears to our request;
Though sometimes you do blench from this to that,
A' will make the man mad, to make a woman of him.
Nor wittingly have I infringed my vow.
Love me or love me not, I like the cap;
Good night to your redress! Is the duke gone?
Untimely storms make men expect a dearth.
Mine honour for his truth: who being so heighten'd,
Wilt thou have music? hark! Apollo plays,
A prosperous south-wind friendly, we have cross'd,
Master Froth?
Do through the clouds behold this present hour,
Patience is stale, and I am weary of it.
I do suspect I have done some offence
As he is famed for mildness, peace, and prayer.
She could have run and waddled all about;
Take that, and that: if all this will not do,
Nay, tarry; I'll go along with thee
At any time 'fore noon.
Sir, there lies such secrets in this fardel and box,
BIONDELLO:
Therefore, my lord,--
Not to kill him, having a warrant for it; but to be
Now, by the jealous queen of heaven, that kiss
It were no less; but yet I'll make a pause.
But I'll amerce you with so strong a fine
That, to deserve well at my brother's hands,
What will ensue hereof, there's none can tell;
To cross me from the golden time I look for!
And there awake God's gentle-sleeping peace.
And, that once gotten, doubt not of large pay.
The royalties and rights of banish'd Hereford?
KING RICHARD III:
'Twas I won the wager, though you hit the white;
O, she's warm!
Farewell, kind neighbours: we wish'd Coriolanus
you speak. But, if ever the duke return, as our
The news is, sir, the Volsces are in arms.
Was innocence for innocence; we knew not
Call for some men of sound direction
But till 'twere known!
Deserves the extremest death.
Your voices therefore.' When we granted that,
Come, mourn with me for that I do lament,
Against Aumerle we will enforce his trial.
Even with the same austerity and garb
Prick love for pricking, and you beat love down.
Who not contented that he lopp'd the branch
One that you love.
'I would be consul,' says he: 'aged custom,
See that forthwith Duke Edward be convey'd
Or felt that pain which I did for him once,
'tis known I am a pretty piece of flesh.
QUEEN MARGARET:
O, this is it that makes your servants droop!
No, in such a case the gods will not be good unto
Rescue, fair lord, or else the day is lost!
He says so, Tranio.
Beseech you, sir, were you present at this relation?
So aged as this seems.
Thy father was a traitor to the crown.
And serve it thus to me that love it not?
Play the men.
Construe them.
Now comes the wanton blood up in your cheeks,
But to the earth some special good doth give,
When the sun sets, the air doth drizzle dew;
Though you were born in Rome:' his bloody brow
The keeper of the prison, call to him;
Away, begone; the sport is at the best.
Even where his lustful eye or savage heart,
This is the point.
But say, my lord, it were not register'd,
with their left legs and not presume to touch a hair
QUEEN MARGARET:
Come, come, you are well understood to be a
there; and yet it will no more but abide.
You do him injury to scorn his corse.
That trembles under his devouring paws;
from the world! What corruption in this life, that
I leave out ceremony.
KING RICHARD II:
I say she's dead; I'll swear't. If word nor oath
Father, what news? what is the prince's doom?
And brave attendants near him when he wakes,
Now, as I live, I will. My nobler friends,
shorn. what comes the wool to?
But since you come too late of our intents,
When, both your voices blended, the great'st taste
PETRUCHIO:
Is death mis-term'd: calling death banishment,
Away, I say, and bring them hither straight.
Officed with me: we two will walk, my lord,
What say you, uncle?
to dine and sup with water and bran; I dare not for
O Romeo, Romeo! wherefore art thou Romeo?
And with the deepest malice of the war
My marvel and my message. To your court
Mercy is not itself, that oft looks so;
But youth in ladies' eyes that flourisheth.
Third Citizen:
The tribunes are no soldiers; and their people
The mounting Bolingbroke ascends my throne,
Where have you lurk'd, that you make doubt of it?
To fetch a ladder, by the which your love
Apollo be my judge!
She is not fourteen. How long is it now
They are both in either's powers; but this swift business
To sunder his that was thine enemy?
By heaven, I will acquaint his majesty
Decline all this, and see what now thou art:
Where is the post that came from Montague?
Which you have not redeem'd; indeed, paid down
And lose advantage, which doth ever cool
Than a delightful measure or a dance;
Or of the deadly seven, it is the least.
Whereto thy tongue a party-verdict gave:
DUKE VINCENTIO:
MISTRESS OVERDONE:
To murder me?
DUCHESS OF YORK:
Third Citizen:
There died this morning of a cruel fever
And yet, between my soul's desire and me--
Now, by my troth, if I had been remember'd,
For he is nothing but a mighty lord.
Have you thought on
No wonder, sir;
But dreadful war shall answer his demand.
Setting it up to fear the birds of prey,
KING RICHARD II:
And till the tears that she hath shed for thee
Offended us you have not, but the king.
danced before the king; and not the worst of the
No, my good lord;
Nay, do not pause; for I did kill King Henry,
All points of my command.
Their own particular thrifts, they would do that
Is partly to behold my lady's face;
For, though before his face I speak the words
Ay, good my lord, and leave us to our fortune.
To make bad good, and good provoke to harm.
Mine ear is open and my heart prepared;
name, Master tapster?
Of Mantua.
Lord marshal, let me kiss my sovereign's hand,
The matter being afoot, keep your instruction,
What's this, what's this? Is this her fault or mine?
So, bring us to our palace; where we'll show
Be it lawful that I invocate thy ghost,
years in doing and now newly performed by that rare
Lay hands on the villain: I believe a' means to
I'll call them back again to comfort me:
That wilt not stay her tongue.
The cause were not in being,--part o' the cause,
occasion to use me for your own turn, you shall find
One i' the neck, and two i' the thigh,--there's
Holding thine ear close to the hollow ground;
I gave him no order; I gave him the stuff.
Hold, Clifford! do not honour him so much
Where bloody Tybalt, yet but green in earth,
Prepare her ears to hear a wooer's tale
Is my master and his wife coming, Grumio?
BIONDELLO:
Pray, be content:
To be so bouted in this royal presence?
Yet give leave, my lord,
And as I truly fight, defend me heaven!
God grant him health! Did you confer with him?
Go to, go to: no matter for the dish, sir.
Sweet father, do so; set it on your head.
You taught me language; and my profit on't
KING EDWARD IV:
Your aery buildeth in our aery's nest.
she may perhaps call him half a score knaves or so:
What, dost thou scorn me for my gentle counsel?
God keep your lordship in that gracious mind!
Third, or fourth, or fifth borough, I'll answer him
with me, let not your worship think me the poor
He was indeed the duke; out o' the substitution
Second Huntsman:
He's in the right. Constable, what say you to it?
much more, much worse.
And given to Lartius and to Marcius battle:
This man, whom hand to hand I slew in fight,
SEBASTIAN:
Against infection and the hand of war,
Richard cried 'Charge! and give no foot of ground!'
To make amends, Ill give it to your daughter.
Good news or bad, that thou comest in so bluntly?
Ay, but give me worship and quietness;
themselves all men of hair, they call themselves
Then be it as you will; for 'tis my right,
I marvel Cambio comes not all this while.
Which you knew great, and to the hazard
No, but there's a woman with maid by him. You have
Worthy Sebastian? O, what might?--No more:--
I have done nothing but in care of thee,
JOHN OF GAUNT:
Thou shalt not do't.
and blue list; an old hat and 'the humour of forty
3 KING HENRY VI
To-morrow, then, I judge a happy day.
He that has but effected his good will
And to that vineyard is a planched gate,
Provokes this deluge most unnatural.
Wert thou environ'd with a brazen wall.
Then would I hide my bones, not rest them here.
A little little grave, an obscure grave;
To him or our authorities. For an end,
First Murderer:
Obedience bids I should not bid again.
Haled out to murder: myself on every post
And of their feather many more proud birds,
And tell me, then, have you not broke your oaths?
Who hast the memory of Hermione,
cannot be able to express it.
To revel it with him and his new bride:
us. When we banished him, we respected not them;
In rage deaf as the sea, hasty as fire.
We three are but thyself; and, speaking so,
Doth hurry from the fatal cannon's womb.
Sweet Duke of York, our prop to lean upon,
Resign'd the crown to Henry the Fourth,
Noble lords,
Hence will I to my ghostly father's cell,
Messenger:
Than what you look on now.
'Twas where you woo'd the gentlewoman so well:
FRIAR LAURENCE:
BUCKINGHAM:
For in an act of this importance 'twere
O Margaret, Margaret, now thy heavy curse
What you will have it named, even that it is;
Ghost of BUCKINGHAM:
Not for because
But if your title to the crown be weak,
with Barnardine's head: I will give him a present
Do light upon her, she shall bring him that
You so remain.
KING EDWARD IV:
Yet I confess that often ere this day,
It shall be speeded well.
And shall be absent. Wend you with this letter:
KING HENRY VI:
LADY ANNE:
Second Messenger:
Your widow-dolour likewise be unwept!
went to sea with the Ten Commandments, but scraped
Or in thy piteous heart plant thou thine ear;
No father owning it,--which is, indeed,
This favour will I do you for his sake;
My gracious liege, this too much lenity
Before the times of change, still is it so:
I thought it was a fault, but knew it not;
QUEEN ELIZABETH:
Tabours and cymbals and the shouting Romans,
Nay, I will win my wager better yet
Either you must
Marry, sir, to get a husband for her sister.
With words of sooth! O that I were as great
I neither care for the world nor your general: for
LORD FITZWATER:
And, to be short, what not, that's sweet and happy?
And level of my brain, plot-proof; but she
I would not spend another such a night,
All to the senate-house: some news is come
His body couched in a curious bed,
This Edward, whom our manners term the prince.
And craves your company for speedy counsel.
Touching the weal o' the common, you shall find
I thought my mother, and my brother York,
We took this mattock and this spade from him,
Here comes the Lady Paulina's steward: he can
Seven year and a half, sir.
writ, and can never find what names the writing
the skirts of it, and beat me to death with a bottom
DUKE VINCENTIO:
the most sufficient of your parish.
And in the power of us the tribunes, we,
More after our commandment than as guided
friends, it shall be so far forth friendly
Or chivalrous design of knightly trial:
Aside, aside; here is more matter for a hot brain:
I have: but what of him?
Was it not to refresh the mind of man
What, art so near? If thou'lt see a thing to talk
Would not have been so stern.
Return to the tribunes.
Now, perjured Henry! wilt thou kneel for grace,
Before you answer Warwick. His demand
The worthy gentleman did lose his life.
Shall rue the hour that ever thou wast born.
The obsequies that I for thee will keep
O yes, I saw sweet beauty in her face,
To this supposed, or else to let him suffer;
If I fly, Marcius,
occasion will rob you of a great deal of patience:
I fear no uncles dead.
Love goes toward love, as schoolboys from
Showing we would not spare heaven as we love it,
Edward's seven sons, whereof thyself art one,
When he might spurn him with his foot away?
may, though they cannot praise us, as little accuse
Marry, sir, that's Claudio, Signior Claudio.
solemness out o' door. and go along with us.
At my petition; I beseech you, rather
Prove me, my gracious sovereign.
What, thou?
As morning roses newly wash'd with dew:
Nay, I told you your son was well beloved in Padua.
Your part in her you could not keep from death,
Your lack of love or bounty, you were straited
To do them good, I would sustain some harm.
For me as for you?
KING RICHARD III:
Thy face is mine, and thou hast slander'd it.
Err'd in this point which now you censure him,
KING RICHARD III:
Before I positively herein:
Whoop'd out of Rome. Now this extremity
Bade me rely on him as on my father,
That any did. Had we pursued that life,
Hence comes it that your kindred shuns your house,
Let's not meet her.
For all the Welshmen, hearing thou wert dead.
favouring the first complaint; hasty and tinder-like
I remember you, sir, by the sound of your voice: I
flesh and blood is not to be punished by him. Show
Though news be sad, yet tell them merrily;
Now I fear thee not:
Profaned, dishonour'd, and the third usurp'd.
But I will keep her ignorant of her good,
We know your drift: speak what?
See how my sword weeps for the poor king's death!
Corrupt with virtuous season. Can it be
Before I see thee seated in that throne
Be Mowbray's sins so heavy in his bosom,
PETRUCHIO:
And now will I be Edward's champion.
What valiant foemen, like to autumn's corn,
I did not bid you mar it to the time.
NORTHUMBERLAND:
Madam, I am here.
wakes, fairs and bear-baitings.
JOHN OF GAUNT:
Meaning to keep her closely at my cell,
We should by this, to all our lamentation,
Nor by the matter which your heart prompts you,
Rivers and Dorset, you were standers by,
I am for you.
To-day the lords you talk of are beheaded.
Boldly 'not guilty;' the imposition clear'd
Come hither, Isabel.
Fie, what an indirect and peevish course
No, nor to-morrow, not till I please myself.
I cannot help it now,
I send it through the rivers of your blood,
A cause for thy repeal, we shall not send
Second Servingman:
A shepherd's daughter.
What's that, I pray?
Go on before; I'll talk with this good fellow.
First Citizen:
A novice of this place and the fair sister
And sleeps again. This is that very Mab
Sirs, take up the corse.
Call'd Katharina, fair and virtuous?
A human shape.
Take your commission; hie you to your bands:
Dear for her reputation through the world,
Whose ugly and unnatural aspect
And therefore, Tranio, for the time I study,
Good day, my lord. What, at your book so hard?
In that dim monument where Tybalt lies.
DUCHESS OF YORK:
O'erborne their way, consumed with fire, and took
Not to be other than one thing, not moving
And if you break the ice and do this feat,
Your father's image is so hit in you,
didst thou not fall out with a tailor for wearing
Hush, master! here's some good pastime toward:
Of your commissions.
Came to your court, how I was in your grace,
For who is living, if those two are gone?
The more we stay, the stronger grows our foe.
DUCHESS OF YORK:
the bear half dined on the gentleman: he's at it
The fouler fortune mine, and there an end.
Which, being suffer'd, rivers cannot quench.
And, to cut off all strife, here sit we down:
Why that's some comfort. What, Camillo there?
Think you my uncle did dissemble, grandam?
dangerous courtesy.
And I for winking at your discords too
QUEEN MARGARET:
Appear not like a guest.
Alas, poor soul!
Think but upon the wrong he did us all,
I think affliction may subdue the cheek,
carries noise, and behind him he leaves tears:
in whose name myself
To tell, he longs to see his son, were strong:
For I have murdered where I should not kill.
And you, good brother father. What offence hath
which hath two letters for her name fairly set down
And with him rises weeping: these are flowers
The soil's fertility from wholesome flowers.
In peril of precipitation
at home that will not
GLOUCESTER:
Your ancient, trusty, pleasant servant Grumio.
And if you cannot, best you stop your ears.
QUEEN ELIZABETH:
All places that the eye of heaven visits
Came more and more and fought on part and part,
His vices, you would say; there's no virtue whipped
And choke your good to come; for his possessions,
Barkloughly castle call they this at hand?
Compare her face with some that I shall show,
I stabb'd your fathers' bosoms, split my breast.
So proudly as if he disdain'd the ground.
There is a kind of character in thy life,
Not the king's crown, nor the deputed sword,
AUTOLYCUS:
CORIOLANUS:
to prison was worth five thousand of you all.
I saw good strawberries in your garden there
How blessed are we that are not simple men!
Brags of his substance, not of ornament:
DUKE OF YORK:
What, is't murder?
Who is that calls so coldly?
Believe me, noble lord,
Or that the resolute acting of your blood
And, Clarence, now then it is more than needful
Stay, or thou diest!
Lucentio! O, he hath murdered his master! Lay hold
So thrive my soul--
You and your crafts! you have crafted fair!
Why stay we now? These soldiers shall be levied,
Second Musician:
Ransoming him, or pitying, threatening the other;
Upon a rapier's point: stay, Tybalt, stay!
Lady, you know no rules of charity,
Welcome, my lord, to this brave town of York.
There is a slave, whom we have put in prison,
This forenamed maid hath yet in her the continuance
but with all duteous love
The benefit thereof is always granted
With hate in those where I expect most love!
Do you neglect them?
Small joy have I in being England's queen.
'Tis more, 'tis more, his son is elder, sir;
KING RICHARD III:
And see how he will take it at your hands.
Of what that want might ruin.
To soar with his light feathers, and so bound,
Our musty superfluity. See, our best elders.
Retain that dear perfection which he owes
Refused most princely gifts, am bound to beg
That swells with silence in the tortured soul;
And soundly too: your houses!
That my revengeful services may prove
like, which else would stand under grievous
GLOUCESTER:
Kind Tyrrel, am I happy in thy news?
What? I say,
Which I did think with slower foot came on,
Perchance shall dry your pities: but I have
I have great hope in that; for in her youth
GLOUCESTER:
I will not ruinate my father's house,
Tybalt, that murderer, which way ran he?
Did never meddle with my thoughts.
than legs, nor no more shoes than feet; nay,
Kneel'd at my feet, and bade me be advised
ARCHBISHOP OF YORK:
We do it not alone, sir.
Therefore be patient, take no note of him:
And arms her with the boldness of a wife
In her imagined person.
I am like you, they say.
PETRUCHIO:
What then?
My wife, sir, whom I detest before heaven and your honour,--
Are you a maid?
A lightning before death: O, how may I
I tell thee, Licio, this is wonderful.
LADY ANNE:
'Tis hatch'd and shall be so: Tranio, at once
'Tis death to me to be at enmity;
PETRUCHIO:
to be constant in any undertaking. There is scarce
What comfort, man? how is't with aged Gaunt?
Kings it makes gods, and meaner creatures kings.
Anointed, crowned, planted many years,
March sadly after; grace my mournings here;
An if you leave me so, you do me wrong.
DUKE OF AUMERLE:
You something know; yet I believe there comes
Nor more can you distinguish of a man
To watch the fearful bending of thy knee,
MISTRESS OVERDONE:
I protest I love the duke as I love myself.
Tell him from me, as he will win my love,
VINCENTIO:
clog at his heels: if I thought it were a piece of
Put in her tender heart the aspiring flame
He is not lolling on a lewd day-bed,
To my daughters; and tell them both,
FRIAR LAURENCE:
Comprising all that may be sworn or said,
These babes for Clarence weep and so do I;
That with his peremptory 'shall,' being but
A plague upon this howling! they are louder than
With tender Juliet match'd, is now not fair.
Sir, that's to-morrow.
KING RICHARD II:
Madam, good hope; his grace speaks cheerfully.
Therefore you speak unskilfully: or if your
Of unrelenting Clifford and the queen,
Crying confusion.
Hold, there is forty ducats: let me have
Your highness shall do well to grant her suit;
Unless philosophy can make a Juliet,
Whither you will, so I were from your sights.
Of my lord's tricks and yours when you were boys:
My friend, I spy some pity in thy looks:
My lords, at once: the cause why we are met
The purple testament of bleeding war;
Or it hath drawn me rather. But 'tis gone.
And thus I seal my truth, and bid adieu.
Of comfort, kingdom, kindred, freedom, life.
him last night.
I give thee this to dry thy cheeks withal.
NORTHUMBERLAND:
angled for mine eyes, caught the water though not
Let the first budger die the other's slave,
And, in strong proof of chastity well arm'd,
Thus hath the course of justice wheel'd about,
FRIAR LAURENCE:
GLOUCESTER:
Were I the ghost that walk'd, I'ld bid you mark
GLOUCESTER:
Why? For filling a bottle with a tundish. I would
As well appeareth by the cause you come;
For we are soft as our complexions are,
you are to depart, I am come to advise you, comfort
DUKE OF SURREY:
Up, cousin, up; your heart is up, I know,
By this, I hope, she hath a son for me.
After the bloody fray at Wakefield fought,
A fair one are you--well you fit our ages
Marry, and shall.
lie, do, and try whether I am not now a gentleman born.
For what thou hast not, still thou strivest to get,
ever and a day.
If this be courtesy, sir, accept of it.
one skull, they would fly east, west, north, south,
But after many ceremonies done,
Hail to you, provost! so I think you are.
And yet too good to be your concubine.
For that which, if myself might be his judge,
he cannot lie with his neighbour's wife, but it
a great man, I'll warrant; I know by the picking
It is in mine authority to command
Marcius, 'tis true that you have lately told us;
I spy life peering; but I dare not say
Alone I fought in your Corioli walls,
Even to my person, than I thought he would
I'll ha' thee burnt.
in it five weeks without changing.
And pull'd the law upon you.
Alas, poor Clarence! is it for a wife
And till I root out their accursed line
More monstrous standing by: whereof I reckon
O, cut my lace in sunder, that my pent heart
So did I, I'll be sworn: he is simply the rarest
DUKE OF YORK:
Come, come, in wooing sorrow let's be brief,
Base men by his endowments are made great.
That shapes man better; and they follow him,
Simois,' I know you not, 'hic est Sigeia tellus,' I
Makes me most forward in this noble presence
I'll say yon grey is not the morning's eye,
If by the way they be not fought withal.
Nay, by Saint Jamy,
Hath been as continent, as chaste, as true,
An if my word be sterling yet in England,
CORIOLANUS:
HENRY BOLINGBROKE:
What, sovereign sir,
For she is changed, as she had never been.
That, were my state far worser than it is,
You know him not, sir.
In haste, post-haste, are come to join with you:
His ready sense; then straight his doubled spirit
But, Warwick, after God, thou set'st me free,
If she have time to breathe be well assured
Is there more toil? Since thou dost give me pains,
From thee, even from thy virtue!
Go not home.
Here's to my love!
Her whip of cricket's bone, the lash of film,
Give me thy hand; 'tis late: farewell; good night.
Let's hear our tribune: peace Speak, speak, speak.
Bears a command in't; though thy tackle's torn.
changes I perceived in the king and Camillo were
me; I will neither be faced nor braved. I say unto
His neck will come to your waist,--a cord, sir.
That he shuts up himself, imagine me,
Where's the cook? is supper ready, the house
Which of you, if you were a prince's son,
No warmth, no breath, shall testify thou livest;
To honour me as thy king and sovereign,
Deposed he shall be, in despite of all.
Make peace with God, for you must die, my lord.
The fabric of his folly, whose foundation
O, belike it is the Bishop of Carlisle.
Sir Christopher, tell Richmond this from me:
To chide my fortune, and torment myself?
Her faction will be full as strong as ours.
Could not abide to be with; therefore wast thou
In thee at once; which thou at once wouldst lose.
Are you agreed?
Many a battle have I won in France,
Alas, the part I had in Woodstock's blood
what 'cerns it you if I wear pearl and gold? I
I do beseech you, let it be his fault,
a puppet of her.
neither to his father nor to me, to go about to make
And, noble uncle, I beseech your grace
And, with my best endeavours in your absence,
Be stamp'd upon it.
Tradition, form and ceremonious duty,
Of prey that keep upon't.
Though Paris came in hope to speed alone.
Was never widow had so dear a loss!
But if thou, jealous, dost return to pry
And fall upon the ground, as I do now,
say is a gallimaufry of gambols, because they are
What have you done? Behold, the heavens do ope,
KATHARINA:
My lord, we must entreat the time alone.
Most dangerously you have with him prevail'd,
Endue you with the people's voice: remains
make an exchange; therefore discase thee instantly,
Thou didst love York, and I am son to York.
The night-crow cried, aboding luckless time;
DUCHESS OF YORK:
But, soft! company is coming here.
And now may seem as wise as virtuous,
FRIAR LAURENCE:
Straining harsh discords and unpleasing sharps.
Will you swear
To sacred Delphos, to Apollo's temple,
Swills your warm blood like wash, and makes his trough
Tut, I have lost myself; I am not here;
Farewell; be trusty, and I'll quit thy pains:
To stay him from the fall of vanity:
To faithful service of your majesty.
But yet, you see how soon the day o'ercast.
With only suffering stain by him; for him
How! know you where you are?
While I remain above the ground, you shall
No, my good lord; it is more pleasing stuff.
Out upon him! prig, for my life, prig: he haunts
nieces; Mercutio and his brother Valentine; mine
POLIXENES:
A beggar, brother?
By us perform'd before. Most dearly welcome!
Away to heaven, respective lenity,
And dart not scornful glances from those eyes,
Gramercies, lad, go forward; this contents:
Give sorrow leave awhile to tutor me
Warwick and Clarence give me both your hands:
The prayers of priests nor times of sacrifice,
Is this your speeding? nay, then, good night our part!
My love till death, my humble thanks, my prayers;
Lord Mayor:
That's my office.
Either forbear,
His face still combating with tears and smiles,
You might have heard it else proclaim'd about.
Who told me how the poor soul did forsake
And at that sight shall sad Apollo weep,
Together with the seal o' the senate, what
I warrant they have made peace with Bolingbroke.
And never brandish more revengeful steel
Take my cap, Jupiter, and I thank thee. Hoo!
eye or so, but not to the purpose. Signior
The marshal's truncheon, nor the judge's robe,
The better that your lordship please to ask.
DUCHESS OF YORK:
Have you deliver'd to her our decree?
My lord of Ely!
How many make the hour full complete;
Cousin, farewell; and, uncle, bid him so:
Now must I to the monument alone;
To some man else, as this dead man doth me.
We lop away, that bearing boughs may live:
Than fall, and bruise to death. Alas, this gentleman
toes look through the over-leather.
Who hath cause to wet the grief on't.
Not like a guest; so you shall pay your fees
And so I say, I'll cut the causes off,
O, death's a great disguiser; and you may add to it.
And still, as you are weary of the weight,
Fasten'd and fix'd the shame on't in himself,
What shrill-voiced suppliant makes this eager cry?
Would be unparallel'd.
But as successively from blood to blood,
I'll hence to London on a serious matter:
Which have, like unscour'd armour, hung by the wall
Insulting tyranny begins to jet
He loves your people
We may surprise and take him at our pleasure?
Happy be you!
HENRY BOLINGBROKE:
This shows a sound affection.
What say you to a piece of beef and mustard?
Simple, plain Clarence! I do love thee so,
Last night she slept not, nor to-night she shall not;
Than some that have accused them wear their hats.
Wanting the manage of unruly jades.
First Watchman:
Thou slander of thy mother's heavy womb!
That teacheth tricks eleven and twenty long,
Here am I left to underprop his land,
I am directed by you.
That it would please thee leave these sad designs
The tribunes cannot do't for shame; the people
And made the forest tremble when they roar'd.
Whilst my invention, hearing not my tongue,
Let's have that, good sir.
To sunder them that yoke so well together.
O, that it were as like as it is true!
Who by his prowess conquered all France:
KING RICHARD II:
With instruments upon them, fit to open
What should I do?
O, good madam, there can be none yet.
yourself ready in your cabin for the mischance of
That we may be admitted where he is.
So Judas did to Christ: but he, in twelve,
No, my good lord, for that is not forgot
And mortal eyes cannot endure the devil.
HENRY BOLINGBROKE:
Besides, he says there are two councils held;
KING RICHARD II:
You must not enter.
Our strength as weak, our weakness past compare,
KING RICHARD II:
In tatter'd weeds, with overwhelming brows,
In shape no bigger than an agate-stone
Goes all decorum.
Harry of Hereford, Lancaster and Derby,
Signior Hortensio, I have often heard
Is my strict fast; I mean, my children's looks;
Are spectacled to see him: your prattling nurse
considering the weather, a taller man than I will
And some will mourn in ashes, some coal-black,
As best thou art experienced, since thou know'st
Vouchsafe a word, young sister, but one word.
Myself your loyal servant, your physician,
Than Bolingbroke to England. Lords, farewell.
Famous Plantagenet, most gracious prince,
Who now are here, taking their leaves of me,
That sought to be encompass'd with your crown:
Dispose of you.
To answer twenty thousand such as you.
To hear Cominius speak?
And when mine oratory grew to an end
NORTHUMBERLAND:
Be every man himself?
Bolder, though not so subtle. My valour's poison'd
Yet execute thy wrath in me alone,
Methinks the truth should live from age to age,
Bid her devise
And manhood is call'd foolery, when it stands
the angry law; do no stain to your own gracious
How! gone!
My heart for anger burns; I cannot brook it.
THOMAS MOWBRAY:
master's whistle. Blow, till thou burst thy wind,
Is like a good thing, being often read,
The most replenished sweet work of nature,
And do not interrupt me in my course.
That can assure my daughter greatest dower
My inch of taper will be burnt and done,
Thy friend no less
PRINCE EDWARD:
Preserver of my father, now of me,
Immoderately she weeps for Tybalt's death,
Nor be grieved: she is of good esteem,
Towards Ludlow then, for we'll not stay behind.
Fiddler, forbear; you grow too forward, sir:
Ay, mistress, and Petruchio is the master;
needs buy and sell men and women like beasts, we
How? what?
extended more than can be thought to begin from such a cottage.
Go, signify as much, while here we march
if it were at liberty, 'twould, sure, southward.
Hold, take this letter; early in the morning
Too late? why, no; I, that do speak a word.
And graced thy poor sire with his bridal-day,
My lord, your promise for the earldom,--
That offer service to your lordship.
That we have bled together. Coriolanus
Their lips were four red roses on a stalk,
And lay the summer's dust with showers of blood
Poor queen! so that thy state might be no worse,
Call forth an officer.
daughter with clipping her; now he thanks the old
And stand betwixt two churchmen, good my lord;
Speak to my gossip Venus one fair word,
I hear their drums: let's set our men in order,
We be affied and such assurance ta'en
Too far in years to be a pupil now:
QUEEN ELIZABETH:
something; make it a word and a blow.
going to bed, or kiln-hole, to whistle off these
I will be deaf to pleading and excuses;
There is some sap in this.
That is thy means to live. Do thou but think
Either his gracious promise, which you might,
My name is Caius Marcius, who hath done
Peace, wilful boy, or I will charm your tongue.
Mine issue of your blood upon your daughter
HORTENSIO:
And is the bride and bridegroom coming home?
A dearer merit, not so deep a maim
Having fully dined before.
Than in our priest-like fasts: therefore I'll watch him
Pewter and brass and all things that belong
If that I could for weeping, you should hear,--
How! Was it we? we loved him but, like beasts
My Lord of Gloucester, in those busy days
His wish'd ability, he had himself
Would through the airy region stream so bright
By each particular star in heaven and
In sign of what you are, not to reward
My father will grant precious things as trifles.
Is quite beyond mine arm, out of the blank
my dreams again: I will therefore tarry in
As thou shalt reign but by their sufferance.
DUKE VINCENTIO:
LADY ANNE:
POLIXENES:
Even for revenge mock my destruction!
much in request, for the old women were all dead.
To dim his glory and to stain the track
I do bite my thumb, sir.
QUEEN MARGARET:
In thy heart-blood, though being all too base
Conceive when after many moody thoughts
To bide upon't, thou art not honest, or,
It is the issue of Polixenes:
Nay, wherefore should they, since that I myself
She said thou wast my daughter; and thy father
O my poor father!
I do, my lord.
them not handsomely.
If you be maid or no?
But if you have a stomach, to't i' God's name:
Look where he comes.
Second Keeper:
Great cause to give great thanks.
the king's fair daughter Claribel to the King of Tunis.
And rail upon the hostess of the house;
CORIOLANUS:
What art thou? and how comest thou hither,
I shall desire you, sir, to give me leave
Do you the office, friar; which consummate,
The violent carriage of it
Go, go, up to the leads; the lord mayor knocks.
now art thou sociable, now art thou Romeo; now art
He told me Paris should have married Juliet:
If I prove honey-mouth'd let my tongue blister
I think thou dost; and, indeed, with most painful
The Volsces dare break with us.
I bid them that did love their country's good
How is it with Titus Lartius?
And some ten voices cried 'God save King Richard!'
What love, think'st thou, I sue so much to get?
Before I make reply to aught you say.
He calls again; I pray you, answer him.
By so much fills their hearts with deadly hate.
And cracking the strong warrant of an oath,
Controlling majesty: alack, alack, for woe,
Of England's true-anointed lawful king.
And fear'st to die? famine is in thy cheeks,
Thereof to be inform'd, imprison't not
I tell you, he that can lay hold of her
I would break a thousand oaths to reign one year.
Will touch us all too near, if God prevent not.
Out of my sight! thou dost infect my eyes.
And spend her strength with over-matching waves.
No less importing than our general good,
Such goodness of your justice, that our soul
wipe their lips.
My mildness hath allay'd their swelling griefs,
And grieve to hear't.
With one consent to have her so bestow'd;
Peace, peace; be not so loud.
And liberty plucks justice by the nose;
Inspire us with the spleen of fiery dragons!
I trembling waked, and for a season after
second day of audience. When you are hearing a
Unto the white-upturned wondering eyes
HORTENSIO:
And marry sweet Bianca with consent.
What, like a corse?
What is the body when the head is off?
GLOUCESTER:
Second Gentleman:
Dogs howl'd, and hideous tempest shook down trees;
At a few drops of women's rheum, which are
PETRUCHIO:
yard, and the tailor with his last, the fisher with
With bag and baggage: many thousand on's
What is your will?
And in my heart the strong and swelling evil
Come, Clarence, come; thou wilt, if Warwick call.
So, now the gates are ope: now prove good seconds:
Juliet, on Thursday early will I rouse ye:
By all of us, and the fair soul herself
not--Cock's passion, silence! I hear my master.
Therefore lay hold of him;
dial is now upon the prick of noon.
To look that way thou wert.
Chide me, dear stone, that I may say indeed
Which, as he breathed defiance to my ears,
Let us take the law of our sides; let them begin.
Upon this ground; and more it would content me
DUKE VINCENTIO:
Therefore farewell; I see thou know'st me not.
More than our brother is our chastity.
It doth contain a king; King Richard lies
She it is.
To undertake the death of all the world,
a more penitent trade than your bawd; he doth
I am your better, traitors as ye are:
The Volscians are dislodged, and Marcius gone:
On, good Camillo.
Then was I going prisoner to the Tower,
Why, tell me, is not this my Cambio?
With good old folks and let them tell thee tales
In all respects by me; nay, more, I doubt it not.
But once a-day, it would unclog my heart
Maiden, no remedy.
Take all myself.
SEBASTIAN:
To credit his own lie, he did believe
More health and happiness betide my liege
But let thy spiders, that suck up thy venom,
Hath made thy person for the thrower-out
Should they not,
For her, my lord,
Second Gentleman:
His grace not being warn'd thereof before:
Who, weak with age, cannot support myself:
Enough then for your wonder. But, come on,
The grand conspirator, Abbot of Westminster,
Second murderer:
Being all this time abandon'd from your bed.
'Tis breath thou lack'st, and that breath wilt thou lose.
Nor never by advised purpose meet
For such a warped slip of wilderness
The wrong I did myself; which was so much,
The strongest nerves and small inferior veins
Shall I forget myself to be myself?
sweet Bianca, if I can by any means light on a fit
KATHARINA:
The noble Duke of Clarence to your hands:
Out of hope of all, but my share of the feast.
Trust to't, bethink you; I'll not be forsworn.
KATHARINA:
PETRUCHIO:
The town is ta'en!
How many hours bring about the day;
What lady-she her lord. You'll stay?
Even now forsake me, and of all my lands
Attend the sequel of your imposition,
Tell me, good grandam, is our father dead?
Nor much oppress'd them with great subsidies.
This will last out a night in Russia,
Methinks he looks as though he were in love:
Make good this ostentation, and you shall
for consulships?
Come, bloody Clifford, rough Northumberland,
KATHARINA:
More widows in them of this business' making
For I have none: let no man speak again
CORIOLANUS:
For fair without the fair within to hide:
I should be arguing still upon that doubt:
Lies now even in the centre of this isle,
The rest, that love me, rise and follow me.
Make them be strong and ready for this hint,
That I will show you shining at this feast,
what news?
HENRY BOLINGBROKE:
his name was Antigonus, a nobleman. But to make an
PRINCE EDWARD:
Am starved for meat, giddy for lack of sleep,
GLOUCESTER:
BIONDELLO:
HENRY BOLINGBROKE:
FRIAR LAURENCE:
And die, ere men can say, God save the queen!
To those whose dealings have deserved the place,
March'd through the city to the palace gates.
My Lord of Westminster, be it your charge
Such terrible impression made the dream.
We come to use our hands and not our tongues.
women, the virginal palms of your daughters, or with
On you or yours,
Bound with triumphant garlands will I come
How far I am from the desire thereof.
Let two more summers wither in their pride,
HENRY BOLINGBROKE:
noble Marcius.
O, I cry you mercy; you are the singer: I will say
Thou foolish friar, and thou pernicious woman,
To merit bliss by making me despair:
To-morrow; to-day; presently; you shall have the
I will not be the executioner.
I was, my lord.
CORIOLANUS:
It is enough I may but call her mine.
I say it is the moon that shines so bright.
A shield as hard as his. A certain number,
Nay, I knew by his face that there was something in
But in this troublous time what's to be done?
HORTENSIO:
Who in rebellion with himself will have
silent, and not confess so much, were a kind of
And Nero will be tainted with remorse,
He'll woo a thousand, 'point the day of marriage,
What, in the midst of the street?
HORTENSIO:
As thunder when the clouds in autumn crack.
Fly to the duke:
Down, down I come; like glistering Phaethon,
I'll rest betide the chamber where thou liest!
He waged me with his countenance, as if
His daughter meanly have I match'd in marriage;
That in the captain's but a choleric word,
Queen Margaret, Prince Edward, and Oxford,
Is there a murderer here? No. Yes, I am:
How thou camest here thou mayst.
Throw over her the veil of infamy:
And I'll say nothing.
Twenty crowns!
KING EDWARD IV:
I find my zenith doth depend upon
with interchange of gifts, letters, loving
Indeed, you shall not.
Work you then.
His marks of merit, wounds received for's country.
Tetchy and wayward was thy infancy;
I doubt not, I, but we shall soon persuade
Or, if thou wilt, swear by thy gracious self,
Opposed, as it must be, by the power of the king:
Good news, good news; the ladies have prevail'd,
Which never tender lady hath born greater,
His issue disinherited should be;
CORIOLANUS:
Can curses pierce the clouds and enter heaven?
We must both give and take, my gracious lord.
Proceed in justice, which shall have due course,
Richard of York! how fares our loving brother?
Here's for my oath, here's for my father's death.
They're busy within; you were best knock louder.
Only, this one: Lord Angelo is precise;
Ay, as the rocks cheer them that fear their wreck:
That mercy which true prayer ought to have.
I mock my name, great king, to flatter thee.
CLEOMENES:
Hail, most royal sir!
Thy prime of manhood daring, bold, and venturous,
Shall give him such an unaccustom'd dram,
What you must say; that he shall not perceive
KING RICHARD III:
All this we swear.
Mark, silent king, the moral of this sport,
LADY ANNE:
Because he married me before to Romeo?
Let me ask my sister pardon. I am so out of love
Have I here touch'd Sicilia and from him
And I, as I love Hastings with my heart!
Stanley, look to your wife; if she convey
But old folks, many feign as they were dead;
I would with such perfection govern, sir,
Why, she comes to borrow nothing of them.
The present consul, and last general
Whose house?
My manly eyes did scorn an humble tear;
His insolence can brook to be commanded
I have a daughter, sir, called Katharina.
Which does mend nature, change it rather, but
As for my patron, stand you so assured,
But, in the midst of this bright-shining day,
As every loyal subject ought to do.
Elected him our absence to supply,
First Senator:
Be ready, as your lives shall answer it,
So singular in each particular,
O the heavens!
Whip me? No, no; let carman whip his jade:
A saint-like sorrow: no fault could you make,
Must die to-morrow! O injurious love,
thou ask me why, sufficeth, my reasons are both good
No longer stay.
Than misery itself would give; rewards
Alack, poor soul! thou hast need of more rags to lay
How now, how now, chop-logic! What is this?
QUEEN ELIZABETH:
Your brother's son shall never reign our king;
With this night's revels and expire the term
NORTHUMBERLAND:
Tell them, when that my mother went with child
be a list of an English kersey as be piled, as thou
'Tis very true: you were in presence then;
which now we'll show 'em in deeds. They say poor
FRIAR LAURENCE:
She is your own; else, you must pardon me,
Let's take leave of him.
if thou account'st it shame. lay it on me;
What wert thou, if the King of Naples heard thee?
'Tis since the nuptials of Lucentio,
Are at my service, like enforced smiles;
Give scandal to the blood o' the prince my son,
That is not quickly buzzed into his ears?
I'll plant Plantagenet, root him up who dares:
Look to the drawbridge there!
You must walk by us on our other hand;
Romeo, good night: I'll to my truckle-bed;
My heart is great; but it must break with silence,
That common chances common men could bear;
DUKE VINCENTIO:
We follow thee.
Ah, ha, my lord, this prince is not an Edward!
Thorough my rust! and how his pity
Wherein your cunning can assist me much.
What, must our mouths be cold?
First Lord:
Ay, my good lord.
To whom in all this presence speaks your grace?
And flourish'd after, I'ld not do't; but since
I'll wear the willow garland for his sake.'
Ere from this war thou turn a conqueror,
GLOUCESTER:
KING HENRY VI:
Here come the Lords of Ross and Willoughby,
shall find, within these two days he will be here.
To his surname Coriolanus 'longs more pride
With divers deaths in death.
Here, Hastings; I will never more remember
'Tis nothing but some bond, that he is enter'd into
Sir, give him head: I know he'll prove a jade.
Cry lost, and so good night!
Sweet York, sweet husband, be not of that mind:
The which you promised I should possess.
If you'll not here proclaim yourself our king,
Of shame seen through thy country, speed
Where be these enemies? Capulet! Montague!
His lordship knows me well, and loves me well.
Lewis and the Lady Bona send to him.
Wednesday half an hour together: has such a
First Lord:
What is't, knave?
Wilt thou conceal this dark conspiracy?
To your own conscience, sir, before Polixenes
KING RICHARD III:
Of our own power: what think you of it?
of the morning: what I think I utter, and spend my
Salisbury?
Merry or sad shall't be?
For curious I cannot be with you,
Should so profane the word, that taught me craft
Which for this nineteen years we have let slip;
He, sir! a tapster, sir; parcel-bawd; one that
His horse is slain, and all on foot he fights,
To execute the charge my father gave me
At Grecian sword, contemning. Tell Valeria,
To alter this, for counsel is but vain.
And men may talk of kings, and why not I?
To have some conference with your grace alone.
But you gave leave to my unwilling tongue
The mariners say how thou hast disposed
He will be talking.
Speak it in French, king; say, 'pardonne moi.'
have the first choice. Follow me, girls.
Out, alas!
Of limping winter treads, even such delight
KING RICHARD III:
That ever Katharina will be woo'd;
Whiles thou art waking.
You bid me make it orderly and well,
Your native town you enter'd like a post,
When it lies starkly in the traveller's bones:
Blind with the pin and web but theirs, theirs only,
While counterfeit supposes bleared thine eyne.
You are the king King Edward hath deposed;
Will I make good against thee, arm to arm,
Boatswain:
Associated with Aufidius, rages
No; I would tell what 'twere to be a judge,
That I might touch that cheek!
Julietta with child.
Our instruments to melancholy bells,
Lord Marshal:
I urged our old acquaintance, and the drops
If thou be merciful,
Cursed be the heart that had the heart to do it!
O despiteful love! unconstant womankind!
Thus will I drown your exclamations.
For which I must not plead, but that I am
Alas poor York! but that I hate thee deadly,
First Musician:
Where is that slave
First Lord:
So play the foolish throngs with one that swoons;
Not with fond shekels of the tested gold,
DUCHESS OF YORK:
To whom my father is not all unknown;
Carlisle, this is your doom:
Heavy matters! heavy matters! but look thee here,
Being spoke behind your back, than to your face.
go on the right hand: I will but look upon the
Injurious Margaret!
She came from Libya.
If He, which is the top of judgment, should
So from thy soul's love didst thou love her brothers;
To what we wildly do, so we profess
And sit thee by our side:
Who intercepts my expedition?
Cats, that can judge as fitly of his worth
Unto a lineal true-derived course.
O Warwick, I do bend my knee with thine;
And curse that justice did it.
I cannot tell; expect they are busied about a
In the deep bosom of the ocean buried.
My daughter Katharina is to be married:
Currents that spring from one most gracious head,
O, by this count I shall be much in years
Need and oppression starveth in thine eyes,
And waked half dead with nothing. Worthy Marcius,
As there comes light from heaven and words from breath,
O Hermione,
Forgive my tyranny; but do not say
And now by law, as well as reverend age,
Alas, I am the mother of these moans!
Make not too rash a trial of him, for
May this, almost a miracle, be done?
First Citizen:
God save the king! although I be not he;
I'll do his country service.
And hither have they sent it for her ransom.
Who is the sink o' the body,--
With thy black mantle; till strange love, grown bold,
Suppose that I am now my father's mouth;
It seldom visits sorrow; when it doth,
Take up those cords: poor ropes, you are beguiled,
advantaged, and the corrupt deputy scaled. The maid
Look to your babe, my lord; 'tis yours:
The king shall do it: must he be deposed?
DUKE VINCENTIO:
But set his murdering knife unto the root
Nor none so bad, but it may well be told.
And wish, so please my sovereign, ere I move,
Inherit at my house; hear all, all see,
To try if thou be current gold indeed
If she be curst, it is for policy,
For Mariana's sake: but as he adjudged your brother,--
Then is there here one Master Caper, at the suit of
For I am loath to break our country's laws.
Here is the head; I'll carry it myself.
Wishing his foot were equal with his eye,
And I did yield to him: but the next morn betimes,
To take on me to keep and kill thy heart.
come from Pisa, and is here at the door to speak with him.
Hold; get you gone, be strong and prosperous
CORIOLANUS:
Old wither'd plants, to wail it with their age.
His popular 'shall' against a graver bench
O brother Montague, give me thy hand:
I must be married to my brother's daughter,
Was not a man my father? Hadst thou foxship
Sir Thomas Erpingham, Sir John Ramston,
And lay those honours on your high deserts.
By course of justice!
Here was 'I thank you for your voices: thank you:
And make poor England weep in streams of blood!
Of great Apollo's priest; and that, since then,
My tongue cleave to my roof within my mouth
Who shall hinder me?
Will come on very slowly. I am sorry,
She speaks yet she says nothing: what of that?
broken out within this hour that ballad-makers
And dull to all proceedings. A deflower'd maid!
Yes, mercy, if you report him truly.
women; he was not inclined that way.
What is six winters? they are quickly gone.
Let them pronounce the steep Tarpeian death,
If good, thou shamest the music of sweet news
But was not this nigh shore?
Hath Death lain with thy wife. There she lies,
You have made
Your blunt upbraidings and your bitter scoffs:
But see, while idly I stood looking on,
The mariners all under hatches stow'd;
GLOUCESTER:
And blow it to the source from whence it came:
What is the business?
without asking my good will?
Forget, forgive; conclude and be agreed;
Bad is the world; and all will come to nought,
Of outward order: this we came not to,
boy. Now bless thyself: thou mettest with things
Uneven is the course, I like it not.
My Lord Aumerle, is Harry Hereford arm'd?
Your oath, my lord, is vain and frivolous.
That he had not so trimm'd and dress'd his land
this year connive at us, and we may do any thing
The one is my sovereign, whom both my oath
and heir to Mars; set at upper end o' the table; no
have had thee than thus to want thee: thou, having
DUKE VINCENTIO:
To say he'll turn your current in a ditch,
The horrible conceit of death and night,
Not dallying with a brace of courtezans,
I thank you, good my lord; and thank you all.
DUCHESS OF YORK:
Bound sadly home for Naples,
CORIOLANUS:
Our haste from hence is of so quick condition
will;'tis strongly wedged up in a block-head, but
Help, three o' the chiefest soldiers; I'll be one.
PETRUCHIO:
Against the Volsces, for they had so vilely
The treasure in this field achieved and city,
Come buy of me, come; come buy, come buy;
imagine me too unhurtful an opposite. But indeed I
Who but to-day hammer'd of this design,
Smiles at her news, while Warwick frowns at his.
Had borne the action of yourself, or else
PETRUCHIO:
Go thou away:
That burn by day and night: and then I loved thee
QUEEN ELIZABETH:
With bloody passage led your wars even to
First Lord:
KING EDWARD IV:
Her name is Katharina Minola,
I must believe my master; else, I promise you,
Up, sir, go with me;
Were most impertinent.
Though calved i' the porch o' the Capitol--
CORIOLANUS:
Doubly divorced! Bad men, you violate
NORTHUMBERLAND:
And to be shortly of a sisterhood,
Where he shall answer, by a lawful form,
'Twas not your valour, Clifford, drove me thence.
Good lady,
Who hath not seen them, even with those wings
The means that heaven yields must be embraced,
'An Angelo for Claudio, death for death!'
To imitate the graces of the gods;
Would I might
Ah, my sour husband, my hard-hearted lord,
HORTENSIO:
QUEEN MARGARET:
Killing that love which thou hast vow'd to cherish;
What, will he not to bed?
Among fresh female buds shall you this night
Will he endure your sight as yet, I fear:
Amen, say we: we will be witnesses.
lesser linen. My father named me Autolycus; who
O, I have pass'd a miserable night,
Well may I get aboard! This is the chase:
Which, like a usurer, abound'st in all,
QUEEN ELIZABETH:
Plainly conceive, I love you.
shoulder-blade is out.
Look on my wrongs with an indifferent eye:
The visitor will not give him o'er so.
Give us some seats. Come, cousin Angelo;
Mistress, your father prays you leave your books
Sirrah, go hire me twenty cunning cooks.
From forth the ranks of many thousand French,
Shall I be heard?
Each way, to better yours.
BRAKENBURY:
First Murderer:
mistress of him: sanctifies himself with's hand and
Shall, for thy love, kill a far truer love;
In whose success we are gentle,--I beseech you,
Contend against thy valour. Know thou first,
Then have at you with my wit! I will dry-beat you
Sir, this is the house: please it you that I call?
Than my unpleased eye see your courtesy.
To mitigate the scorn he gives his uncle,
JOHN OF GAUNT:
HENRY BOLINGBROKE:
Which else would post until it had return'd
motion of the Prodigal Son, and married a tinker's
For it requires the royal debt it lent you.
HENRY BOLINGBROKE:
In that thou seest thy wretched brother die,
It was a bare petition of a state
pulled down?
SEBASTIAN:
They shall be satisfied: I'll read enough,
Ere I again behold my Romeo!
Of thy devotion and right Christian zeal.
I am arrived for fruitful Lombardy,
KING RICHARD III:
If all else fail, myself have power to die.
Then love-devouring death do what he dare;
A moiety of the throne a great king's daughter,
Leontes opening his free arms and weeping
Where our right valiant father is become.
Come, shall we go?
Give some supportance to the bending twigs.
Will bear up with this exercise, so long
KING EDWARD IV:
That bucket down and full of tears am I,
NORTHUMBERLAND:
God keep all vows unbroke that swear to thee!
The other part reserved I by consent,
kind and natural; with him, the portion and sinew of
could have seen 't, the woe had been universal.
Rescue, my Lord of Norfolk, rescue, rescue!
Thou hast most kindly hit it.
Ghost of GREY:
FRIAR LAURENCE:
Now is the winter of our discontent
Join'd in commission with him; but either
Where is my lord protector? I have sent for these
I might have look'd upon my queen's full eyes,
He may surrender; so we shall proceed
the way? Is it sad, and few words? or how? The
Padua affords this kindness, son Petruchio.
BALTHASAR:
That should consume it, I have not the face
NORTHUMBERLAND:
Intend here to besiege you in your castle:
Deceive more slily than Ulysses could,
Which honour and allegiance cannot think.
Naught to do with mistress Shore! I tell thee, fellow,
He's within, sir, but not to be spoken withal.
And bashful Henry deposed, whose cowardice
At meeting tears the cloudy cheeks of heaven.
All may be well; but, if God sort it so,
I think there is not half a kiss to choose
A kneaded clod; and the delighted spirit
Wife, mother, child, I know not. My affairs
And seal the title with a lovely kiss!
I need not add more fuel to your fire,
Whom late you have named for consul.
That one short minute gives me in her sight:
POLIXENES:
tongues: therefore follow me, and I direct you how
Tellest thou me of 'ifs'? Thou art a traitor:
So foolish sorrow bids your stones farewell.
Proportionable to the enemy
To the corruption of a blemished stock:
KING RICHARD II:
A most delicious banquet by his bed,
And with your queen. I am his cupbearer:
understand, the greater file of the subject held the
To see his nobleness!
Come, come with me, and we will make short work;
the curses he shall have, the tortures he shall
Come, I'll conduct you to the sanctuary.
And now I cloy me with beholding it.
shall have all the world drink brown and white bastard.
Almost as like as eggs; women say so,
It is the humane way: the other course
I pray you, sir, is it your will
'Warwick, revenge! brother, revenge my death!'
Cousin, throw up your gage; do you begin.
To sin in loving virtue: never could the strumpet,
That feed'st me with the very name of meat:
The great Apollo suddenly will have
HENRY BOLINGBROKE:
I'll not meddle with it: it is a dangerous thing: it
Hear me yourself; for that which I must speak
Five times in that ere once in our five wits.
KATHARINA:
Most dignifies the haver: if it be,
They could not speak; and so I left them both,
confession, learn to begin thy health; but, whilst I
The evil that thou causest to be done,
One thus descended,
DUKE OF AUMERLE:
And his pure soul unto his captain Christ,
This cannot anger him: 'twould anger him
Tranio, I burn, I pine, I perish, Tranio,
Much more a shrew of thy impatient humour.
What dreadful noise of waters in mine ears!
A French crown more.
Be not so long to speak; I long to die,
CLEOMENES:
Well, madam, and in health.
With no less terror than the elements
services thou hast done; which if I have not enough
I never sued to friend nor enemy;
Have in our armours watch'd the winter's night,
AUTOLYCUS:
To lie discolour'd by this place of peace?
I know my remedy; I must go fetch the
when you have pushed out your gates the very
LADY CAPULET:
For now we sit to chat as well as eat.
Well, well, no more of that.
He shall not make me there a joyful bride.
And too soon marr'd are those so early made.
Benedicite!
Too much hair there, but in a semicircle
Will rain hot vengeance on offenders' heads.
Now sways it this way, like a mighty sea
Nay, take me with thee, good sweet Exeter:
After my death the one half of my lands,
LADY ANNE:
GLOUCESTER:
was I with you there for the goose?
SEBASTIAN:
I thank you, sir. Where then do you know best
Tremble at patience. You, my lord, best know,
Would I had been by, to have helped the old man!
Into something rich and strange.
But what it is, that is not yet known; what
Whom fair befal in heaven 'mongst happy souls!
O, let my sovereign turn away his face
That your free undertaking cannot miss
Her nurse is privy: and, if aught in this
How do I thank thee, that this carnal cur
And pay no worship to the garish sun.
He needs no indirect nor lawless course
I thank my God for my humility.
DUKE VINCENTIO:
Doting like me and like me banished,
care; so far that I have eyes under my service which
Against them both my true joints bended be.
so money comes withal.
To drive away the heavy thought of care?
Madam, the Lady Valeria is come to visit you.
And when thou fail'st--as God forbid the hour!--
The gracious queen, part of his theme, but nothing
Unbuckling helms, fisting each other's throat,
The main blaze of it is past, but a small thing
I am a villain: yet I lie. I am not.
And, look, when I am king, claim thou of me
But basely yielded upon compromise
So I am, to let him live.
For selfsame wind that I should speak withal
The time shall not be many hours of age
VINCENTIO:
O friar, the damned use that word in hell;
What then?
And then, I hope, thou wilt be satisfied.
Scotland hath will to help, but cannot help;
This is all:
Should, if a coward heard her speak these words,
To hurl upon their heads that break his law.
Hortensio, hark:
If he be less, he's nothing; but he's more,
And weep ye now, seeing she is advanced
And unavoided is the danger now,
Dost lack any money? I have a little money for thee.
She's an adulteress; I have said with whom:
I told your majesty as much before:
This hand should chop it off, and with the
Irons of a doit, doublets that hangmen would
Of Edward's heirs the murderer shall be.
PETRUCHIO:
Some light-foot friend post to the Duke of Norfolk:
GLOUCESTER:
think me still no gentleman born: you were best say
Madest quick conveyance with her good aunt Anne.
not be allowed in Vienna.
First Soldier:
When he doth bid good morrow with such a spirit.
I daily vow to use it. Come and lead me
Slaughters a thousand waiting upon that.
Ratcliff, thyself, or Catesby; where is he?
Keep house and ply his book, welcome his friends,
And nobleness impose: at least thus much:
When thou comest thither--
Would the nobility lay aside their ruth,
First Murderer:
It is your former promise.
lying: it becomes none but tradesmen, and they
Against the non-performance, 'twas a fear
handkerchief and rings of his that Paulina knows.
Thereon I pawn my credit and mine honour.
Unto the wished haven of my bliss.
For I will hence to Warwick's other daughter;
Whom it concerns to hear this matter forth,
Let me see: every 'leven wether tods; every tod
I have a servant comes with me along,
And razure of oblivion. Give me your hand,
Have we more sons? or are we like to have?
If you contend, a thousand lives must wither.
And wilt thou pluck my fair son from mine age,
Let them not live to taste this land's increase
It is, and wants but nomination.
Oppose against their wills.
Who, with a charm join'd to their suffer'd labour,
Would bring white hairs unto a quiet grave.
GLOUCESTER:
Knock, sir! whom should I knock? is there man has
On him I lay what you would lay on me,
Lord! when 'twas a little prating thing:--O, there
To answer mildly; for they are prepared
Over the glittering helmet of my foe!
How fain, like Pilate, would I wash my hands
Hence with him to the Tower; let him not speak.
A king, perhaps, perhaps,--
To Lammas-tide?
My father Capulet will have it so;
To strengthen and support King Edward's place.
Your grace's pardon, and I hope I had it.
Destroy what lies before 'em.
KING RICHARD III:
The pride of kingly sway from out my heart;
the yarn she spun in Ulysses' absence did but fill
is to behold him with flies blown to death. But what
By thinking on the frosty Caucasus?
Neglect the visitation of my friends.
It is your husband mock'd you with a husband.
I cannot weep; for all my body's moisture
Preys on the issue of his mother's body,
Master, your love must live a maid at home;
Welcome, you;--how now, you;-- what, you;--fellow,
Till his lost child be found? which that it shall,
Alas, alas! Help, help! my lady's dead!
You have a daughter call'd Elizabeth,
The weary way hath made you melancholy.
Our substitutes at home shall have blank charters;
Helen of Greece was fairer far than thou,
Endured all weathers.
The queen with all the northern earls and lords
It is true.
And, to sink in it, should you burden love;
DUKE VINCENTIO:
Your grace attended to their sugar'd words,
That pages blush'd at him and men of heart
Many good morrows to my noble lord!
In those foundations which I build upon,
Welcome, good Cambio.
Will cost my crown, and like an empty eagle
Is thicker than a cuckold's horn,--or heard,--
sick health!
For I have bills for money by exchange
I know her father, though I know not her;
And meteors fright the fixed stars of heaven;
Boy, let me see the writing.
Will guard your person while you take your rest,
As who should say, if I should sleep or eat,
Well said, my hearts! You are a princox; go:
A merry heart goes all the day,
To lure this tassel-gentle back again!
tongue to the roof of my mouth, my heart in my
Unless I have mista'en his colours much,
both your houses! 'Zounds, a dog, a rat, a mouse, a
Proud setter up and puller down of kings!
Be of comfort;
The better, given me by so holy a man.
Against a falling fabric. Will you hence,
Worse than a promise-breaker.
Forgetting any other home but this.
GLOUCESTER:
O sir, it is better to be brief than tedious. Show
To you, my lord, I come, what lord you will,
Mistrust it not: for, sure, AEacides
For I have heard it said
His words come from his mouth, ours from our breast:
That I may call thee something more than man
What though the mast be now blown overboard,
O woe! thy canopy is dust and stones;--
The baby beats the nurse, and quite athwart
The end of war's uncertain, but this certain,
May stand in number, though in reckoning none,
Strive mightily, but eat and drink as friends.
From his true-meant design. Upon his place,
May call it back again. Well, believe this,
And never will I rise up from the ground
But Barnardine must die this afternoon:
O the heavens!
QUEEN ELIZABETH:
Therefore commend me; let him not come there,
FERDINAND:
As bright as is the eagle's, lightens forth
HENRY BOLINGBROKE:
From this world-wearied flesh. Eyes, look your last!
Some comet or unusual prodigy?
When with his Amazonian chin he drove
To foreign passages, and in the end,
To what we fear of death.
The setting sun, and music at the close,
O noble fellow!
Such a dependency of thing on thing,
And see what death is doing.
They have placed their men of trust?
And beg thy pardon ere he do accuse thee.
To keep them back that come to succor you:
At that sad stop, my lord,
My sovereign liege, I do beseech your majesty
For what before it was.
Why, then I will do what your grace commands.
KATHARINA:
And all the ruins of distressful times
But didst thou see them dead?
And makes himself an artificial night:
on the voice of occupation and
What, is the man lunatic?
PETRUCHIO:
Third Citizen:
Or I shall faint. A plague o' both your houses!
HORTENSIO:
The curfew-bell hath rung, 'tis three o'clock:
When you depart from him, but, soft and low,
In cypress chests my arras counterpoints,
Very true, sir; he, sir, he; that's the rogue that
That same villain, Romeo.
And they have troops of soldiers at their beck?
Must climb a bird's nest soon when it is dark:
Of their best trust; o'er them Aufidius,
two and thirty, a pip out? Whom would to God I had
But is your grace dead, my Lord of Somerset?
And in thy need such comfort come to thee
man i' the world.
Myself, a prince by fortune of my birth,
Well, I do so.
White-beards have arm'd their thin and hairless scalps
GLOUCESTER:
I think I shall command your welcome here,
What power the Duke of York had levied there;
To revel it with him and his new bride.'
And leave him all; life, living, all is Death's.
No, 'tis not so deep as a well, nor so wide as a
Some one be ready with a costly suit
Nor do I think the man of safe discretion
Tell her I send to her my kind commends;
Ha! am I king? 'tis so: but Edward lives.
Had you first died, and he been thus trod down,
MISTRESS OVERDONE:
DUKE VINCENTIO:
With best advantage will deceive the time,
Stirr'd up by God, thus boldly for his king:
When my poor heart no measure keeps in grief:
being gracious, than they are in losing them when
I know not, sir.
And, like a traitor to the name of God,
DUCHESS OF YORK:
As he had seen't or been an instrument
BUCKINGHAM:
Have told me, I being by, that I should kill him?
Take honour from me, and my life is done:
Of double-fatal yew against thy state;
Become some women best, so that there be not
As now she might have done,
What is that curt'sy worth? or those doves' eyes,
Shall be extinct with age and endless night;
And 'twas time for him too, I'll warrant him that:
CORIOLANUS:
Ah, well-a-day! he's dead, he's dead, he's dead!
doing much alone. You talk of pride: O that you
You did continue fault and that you slipp'd not
Why, bishop, is Norfolk dead?
Groan! why, no.
O my brother,
O, that I were a glove upon that hand,
Their mercy at the price of one fair word;
AUTOLYCUS:
Put not another sin upon my head,
Return with welcome home from banishment.
The second and the third, nine, and some five;
When I was crown'd I was but nine months old.
My dear-loved cousin, and my dearer lord?
Becomes not Rome, nor has Coriolanus
sheep-shearing.
Welcome, my son: who are the violets now
But speedily.
think well to carry this as you may, the doubleness
That were the cause of my imprisonment.
Come, my gracious lord,
Thy age confirm'd, proud, subdued, bloody,
It shall be Romeo, whom you know I hate,
Go to Flint castle: there I'll pine away;
I come to know your pleasure.
First Senator:
Save you, sir.
seems he to be touched?
Give way to what's seen now! Sir, you yourself
Yet had not we determined he should die,
That I crave death more willingly than mercy;
Where Juliet lives; and every cat and dog
How say you sir? Can you deny all this?
Tell me if you love Warwick more than me?
Whipt first, sir, and hanged after.
Now, Montague, sit fast; I seek for thee,
One on 's father's moods.
We shall be blest to do, if he remember
envious a scholar, a statesman and a soldier.
To see him any more,--cast your good counsels
And cried 'A crown, or else a glorious tomb!
To beautify him, only lacks a cover:
Too flattering-sweet to be substantial.
KING RICHARD II:
First, an it like you, the house is a respected
For I am she, and altogether joyless.
That will be damn'd for't; would I knew the villain,
Stay not, be gone; live, and hereafter say,
Go thou, and like an executioner,
Oxford, how haps it, in this smooth discourse,
King Henry and the prince his son are gone:
EARL OF SALISBURY:
Now we have shown our power,
GLOUCESTER:
My present vengeance taken: 'shrew my heart,
'Frets, call you these?' quoth she; 'I'll fume
I had forgot myself; am I not king?
Well have you heard, but something hard of hearing:
So shalt thou sinew both these lands together;
Ah, where's my man? give me some aqua vitae:
But look'd not on the poison of their hearts :
To see if any mean to shrink from me.
laboured for the poor gentleman to the extremest
Had I a glass, I would.
I'll have thy beauty scratch'd with briers, and made
What thou dost know of noble Gloucester's death,
Indeed, left nothing fitting for the purpose
A crack, madam.
It toucheth you, my lord, as much as me.
Then go with me to make the matter good.
Cold biting winter mars our hoped-for hay.
Unto the citizens, who haply may
'Tis far off
I do; and will fetch off Bohemia for't;
They mock thee, Clifford: swear as thou wast wont.
Nay, and you shall hear some.
I'll wear the willow garland for his sake.
DUKE OF AUMERLE:
PETRUCHIO:
Good lords, conduct him to his regiment:
Betwixt myself and her; which was broke off,
the sea or weather.
You use your manners discreetly in all kind of companies:
A grievous burthen was thy birth to me;
Black and portentous must this humour prove,
KING RICHARD III:
'em good shipping! But who is here? mine old
What say'st thou, Henry, wilt thou yield the crown?
Well are you welcome to the open air.
'Tis pity of him.
Thou art poor'st of all; then shortly art thou mine.
no greater forfeit to the law than Angelo who hath
I'll have this crown of mine cut from my shoulders
True; save means to live.
Forbids to dwell upon: yet remember this,
But he, my lord, is gone to Ravenspurgh,
At Ravenspurgh.
HORTENSIO:
Let him alone, or so many so minded,
Withdraw thee, wretched Margaret: who comes here?
Lord Mayor:
Madam, his majesty doth call for you,
'Tis wondrous strange, the like yet never heard of.
the poor. If the wars eat us not up, they will; and
But thou art not quickly moved to strike.
That faced and braved me in this matter so?
No doubt, shall then and till then govern well.
Here comes a messenger. What news?
Go some of you and fetch a looking-glass.
I say, without characters, fame lives long.
Do they still fly to the Roman?
Upon my life, Petruchio means but well,
And sigh'd my English breath in foreign clouds,
With spur we beat an acre. But to the goal:
tailors, and breed ballad-makers.
KING EDWARD IV:
No doubt, my lord.
Or walk in thievish ways; or bid me lurk
Though therein you can never be too noble,
And all the clouds that lour'd upon our house
Messenger:
Stay your thanks a while;
And not a jot of Tranio in your mouth:
And far surmounts our labour to attain it.
Madam, my instrument's in tune.
So many blows upon this face of mine,
And from the bishop's huntsmen rescued him;
And in her most unmitigable rage,
Now put your shields before your hearts, and fight
And yet not so, for with a kiss 'twas made.
And not the punishment. Therefore indeed, my father,
GLOUCESTER:
Than gilt his trophy: the breasts of Hecuba,
His lands then seized on by the conqueror:
KING RICHARD III:
That in the sty of this most bloody boar
What is her mother?
To make a bloody supper in the Tower.
I list not prophecy; but let Time's news
Pray now, buy some: I love a ballad in print o'
All that you speak shows fair.
I love no chiders, sir. Biondello, let's away.
NORTHUMBERLAND:
Second Murderer:
The heads of the maids?
And for these great affairs do ask some charge,
So when he opens his purse to give us our reward,
Or bend one wrinkle on my sovereign's face.
Hear a little further
You are like to do such business.
He jests at scars that never felt a wound.
Gentleman:
In prenzie guards! Dost thou think, Claudio?
Because I know you well and love you well,
are to be smiled at, their offences being so
KING LEWIS XI:
AUTOLYCUS:
Unless another,
What, art thou stiff? stand'st out?
Think you so? Which way do you judge my wit would
die a dry death.
If I may trust the flattering truth of sleep,
Nor you, as we are, loyal.
Near twenty years ago, in Genoa,
Speak, speak.
And rap me well, or I'll knock your knave's pate.
And whatsoever you will employ me in,
And see how one another lends content
The king, that calls your beauteous daughter wife.
KING RICHARD II:
We were elected theirs, Marcius is worthy
Let's levy men, and beat him back again.
I took an oath that he should quietly reign.
And she shall be sole victress, Caesar's Caesar.
A sickness caught of me, and yet I well!
None that I more love than myself. You are a
And Rice ap Thomas with a valiant crew;
Who did hoot him out o' the city.
Shall make their way seem short, as mine hath done
To cross my obsequies and true love's rite?
What is his name?
Earl of Northumberland, he slew thy father.
Come unto these yellow sands,
And blown with restless violence round about
That with such vehemency he should pursue
3 KING HENRY VI
in mine office, awakens me with this unwonted
To hear thee speak of Naples. He does hear me;
This is his tent; and see where stand his guard.
To bandy word for word and frown for frown;
O slow-wing'd turtle! shall a buzzard take thee?
And let him ne'er see joy that breaks that oath!
For divers unknown reasons. I beseech you,
Come, cousin, let us tell the queen these news.
Hot lavender, mints, savoury, marjoram;
HENRY PERCY:
What do I fear? myself? there's none else by:
Whose double bosoms seem to wear one heart,
My Lord of Norfolk,--
O woful time!
A sick man's appetite, who desires most that
I came into the world with my legs forward:
This afternoon, sir? well, she shall be there.
have none.
Shall touch the people--which time shall not want,
Honourable Menenius, my boy Marcius approaches; for
GLOUCESTER:
Your well defended honour, you must pardon
shearers prove sheep, let me be unrolled and my name
Come not before him.
Should not become my wife and England's queen.
Husband, let's follow, to see the end of this ado.
things that are hollow: thy bones are hollow;
Some tricks of desperation. All but mariners
For never yet one hour in his bed
Nor how to study for the people's welfare,
KING EDWARD IV:
Lend me your knees, and all my life to come
And princess no worse issued.
But thy unkindness shall his death draw out
'Tis sin to flatter; 'good' was little better:
Stand by and mark the manner of his teaching.
Measure our confines with such peaceful steps?
The dust on antique time would lie unswept,
This dead king to the living king I'll bear
With less respect than we do minister
When corn was given them gratis, you repined;
To pass assurance of a dower in marriage
Well hast thou spoken, cousin: be it so.
DUKE VINCENTIO:
First Servant:
QUEEN MARGARET:
What valour were it, when a cur doth grin,
Run not before mine honour, nor my lusts
That seem like prudent helps, are very poisonous
And see him dress'd in all suits like a lady:
My father and my grandfather were kings,
The which, how far off from the mind of Bolingbroke
How thou lovest us, show in our brother's welcome;
If it be so, then both depart to him;
make merry withal?
Myself thus alter'd with 't.
Than what he stood for, so his gracious nature
My first son.
To haste thus fast, to find us unprovided.
So much for that. The silent hours steal on,
BRAKENBURY:
No doubt, no doubt; and so shall Clarence too;
Whereat the great Lord of Northumberland,
How, my pretty York? I pray thee, let me hear it.
wherefore: so that, if they love they know not why,
Nimble mischance, that art so light of foot,
Come on, our queen: to-morrow must we part;
Good ladies, let's go. Yes, yes, yes; the senate
Would buy this for a lie!
When thou hast broke it in so dear degree?
When as the enemy hath been ten to one:
Witness the loving kiss I give the fruit.
I shall be, if I claim by open war.
And undertake the teaching of the maid:
Third Messenger:
But I had rather kill two enemies.
Of Bolingbroke, covering your fearful land
LADY CAPULET:
He wants advice.
Exempt from envy, but not from disdain,
So many days my ewes have been with young;
A beauty-waning and distressed widow,
I would you did but see how it chafes, how it rages,
He'll stay my lord.
I am content, in a good father's care,
Lord Marshal:
Strike all that look upon with marvel. Come,
Away! the tribunes do attend you: arm yourself
Away, away! Once more, sweet lords farewell.
To leave this keen encounter of our wits,
QUEEN ELIZABETH:
I' the field prove flatterers, let courts and cities be
We are lucky, boy; and to be so still requires
Wouldst thou have laugh'd had I come coffin'd home,
Live here in heaven and may look on her;
DUKE VINCENTIO:
A man that apprehends death no more dreadfully but
wilt quarrel with a man for cracking nuts, having no
Doth love my daughter and she loveth him,
And I could sing, would weeping do me good,
Thus from my lips, by yours, my sin is purged.
That shall be up at heaven and enter there
Gladly, my lord.
And spur thee on with full as many lies
Where are those--Sit down, Kate, and welcome.--
Off with his head! Now, by Saint Paul I swear,
To be thy nurses! Wolves and bears, they say
And take our friendly senators by the hands;
Where I shall kneel to him that slew my father!
Or else his head's assurance is but frail.
Were there necessity in your request, although
The gods give you joy, sir, heartily!
Be it with resolution then to fight.
From when this stream through muddy passages
He capers nimbly in a lady's chamber
Thank you. Wondrous heavy.
On me, and you, and mine, and yours for this!
Being ne'er so little urged, another way
Desolate, desolate, will I hence and die:
Unpeopled offices, untrodden stones?
GLOUCESTER:
For he is just and always loved us well.
Northumberland, thou ladder wherewithal
By nothing; for this is no oath:
Which you deny already: yet we will ask;
The cockerel.
Look, what I will not, that I cannot do.
I like it well that our fair queen and mistress
To high promotions and great dignity:
One nick-name for her purblind son and heir,
NORTHUMBERLAND:
What incidency thou dost guess of harm
JOHN OF GAUNT:
How I may formally in person bear me
And, toward the education of your daughters,
Tranio, be so, because Lucentio loves:
Come, come, thou art as hot a Jack in thy mood as
SIR STEPHEN SCROOP:
Let there be some more test made of my metal,
Done many things, some less, some more your voices:
Having God, her conscience, and these bars
Of what you should forget. Now, good my liege
PETRUCHIO:
Relent, and save your souls.
Than this of Juliet and her Romeo.
But Romeo's name speaks heavenly eloquence.
And what these sorrows could not thence exhale,
QUEEN MARGARET:
To fail in the disposing of those chances
I will wish her speedy strength, and visit her with
DUKE VINCENTIO:
Pardon me, sir, the boldness is mine own,
Which ne'er came from the lungs, but even thus--
With honour, as in war, since that to both
Richard, be Duke of Gloucester. Now to London,
And yet be seen to bear a woman's face?
My bounty is as boundless as the sea,
Three civil brawls, bred of an airy word,
Boatswain:
As doth a lion in a herd of neat;
his eye; talks like a knell, and his hum is a
Therefore thy kinsmen are no let to me.
How God and good men hate so foul a liar.
She is not for your turn, the more my grief.
Are not thine own so proper as to waste
Carry this mad knave to the gaol. Father Baptista,
CORIOLANUS:
Shall bear along impawn'd, away to-night!
Which she shall purchase with still lasting war.
and the princes, our kindred, are going to see the
When the sun sets, who doth not look for night?
That profit us. What, ho! slave! Caliban!
A challenge, on my life.
Needs must I like it well: I weep for joy
Jog on, jog on, the foot-path way,
So disguise shall, by the disguised,
On thy soul's peril and thy body's torture,
And never look upon thy face again.
Fear not, my lord: that Power that made you king
The flattering index of a direful pageant;
For joyful mother, one that wails the name;
Consort! what, dost thou make us minstrels? an
Letters should not be known; riches, poverty,
Your brother's death, I know, sits at your heart;
continued in it some time. You say, seven years together?
Me seemeth good, that, with some little train,
courted now with a double occasion, gold and a means
And interchangeably set down their hands,
Since I have ever follow'd thee with hate,
Were you in my stead, would you have heard
Brave warriors, Clifford and Northumberland,
But quick and in mine arms. Come, take your flowers:
And since you do profess to be a suitor,
With 'Thanks, my countrymen, my loving friends;'
Thou pout'st upon thy fortune and thy love:
Take in your love, and then let me alone.
And try your penitence, if it be sound,
Renown'd in Padua for her scolding tongue.
And so, proud-hearted Warwick, I defy thee,
A sin-absolver, and my friend profess'd,
Their weapons like to lightning came and went;
Delay this marriage for a month, a week;
Fie, daughter! when my old wife lived, upon
The which will I; not all so much for love
Hope I may choose, sir.
Then 'twas my turn to fly, and now 'tis thine.
But owe thy pride thyself.
Their fruits of duty: superfluous branches
Would have shed water out of fire ere done't:
that Petrarch flowed in: Laura to his lady was but a
3 KING HENRY VI
KING RICHARD II:
A messenger from the Lord Stanley.
To painful labour both by sea and land,
KATHARINA:
But that's past doubt, you have, or your eye-glass
Art then forsaken, as thou went'st forlorn!
Against his brother and his lawful king?
We have record that very well it can,
And her immortal part with angels lives.
Say you the like to him?
Hilloa, loa!
Gracious my lord,
Because sweet flowers are slow and weeds make haste.
POLIXENES:
What was my first? it has an elder sister,
Unless the Lady Bona quit his pain.
Who is't that calls? is it my lady mother?
And mothers that lack sons.
My liege, in Kent the Guildfords are in arms;
This, here before you.
BALTHASAR:
It rains downright.
May fright the hopeful mother at the view;
Why, that's my bawcock. What, hast
Amity too, of your brave father, whom,
Was ever man so proud as is this Marcius?
And forced to live in Scotland a forlorn;
May be possessed with some store of crowns;
Or lambs pursued by hunger-starved wolves.
Shame to him whose cruel striking
To set him free from his captivity.
KING RICHARD III:
Another's issue.
the hour, if it so hap. Cheerly, good hearts! Out
That does affect it. Once more, fare you well.
Take, then, this your companion by the hand,
That you have slander'd so?
Which, whiles it lasted, gave King Henry light.
Sir, my name is Lucio; well known to the duke.
More than a wild exposture to each chance
Old sir, I know
his demands to the point; only refer yourself to
These happy masks that kiss fair ladies' brows
To fair Bianca, so beloved of me.
And, daughter, yours.
Prithee, peace.
That high All-Seer that I dallied with
Or more than common fear of Clifford's rigour,
For God's sake, lords, give signal to the fight.
I saw him in the battle range about;
KATHARINA:
Why should we in the compass of a pale
His prayers are full of false hypocrisy;
And when in music we have spent an hour,
And squarest thy life according. Thou'rt condemn'd:
To be consorted with the humorous night:
To make die with a restorative.
Is pale cold cowardice in noble breasts.
Gives in your weakness strength unto your foe,
Swear not by time to come; for that thou hast
In lasting labour of his pilgrimage!
And raise his issue, like a loving sire;
To think it was so? O, give me thy hand,
KING EDWARD IV:
Towards him I made, but he was ware of me
Pronounce a sentence on your brother's life:
The saddest spectacle that e'er I view'd.
JOHN OF GAUNT:
I ever said we were i' the wrong when we banished
If they be senators: and they are no less,
KING HENRY VI:
Come home with me to supper; and I'll lay
Even thou and none but thou. Take it up straight:
Where my poor young was limed, was caught and kill'd.
FRIAR LAURENCE:
O serpent heart, hid with a flowering face!
LORD BERKELEY:
The guilt of conscience take thou for thy labour,
But I have reasons strong and forcible.
My conscience tells me he is lawful king.
MAMILLIUS:
Good my lord, forbear:
Were I as patient as the midnight sleep,
Come, quench your blushes and present yourself
Now are they come.
And thus I clothe my naked villany
And, being anger'd, puffs away from thence,
This conduct to convey me to the Tower.
First Lord:
Making the hard way sweet and delectable.
Upon the part o' the people, in whose power
Ah, no, no, no, it is mine only son!
Pins and poking-sticks of steel,
Call Warwick patron and be penitent?
We shall be joyful of thy company.
CORIOLANUS:
What, Warwick, wilt thou leave the town and fight?
desire to lay my bones there. Besides, the penitent
That, if you fail in our request, the blame
Were never orphans had so dear a loss!
Norfolk, for thee remains a heavier doom,
With thy embracements to my wife's allies,
Wrench up thy power to the highest.
Thou art too noble to conserve a life
O that you could!
Third Citizen:
What, are you married?
And take the great-grown traitor unawares:
Thy old groans ring yet in my ancient ears;
Call Coriolanus.
cat, to scratch a man to death! a braggart, a
From Scotland am I stol'n, even of pure love,
Be it so; go back: the virtue of your name
Plantagenet shall speak first: hear him, lords;
by mine honour,
How they at Pomfret bloodily were butcher'd,
Second Murderer:
I think 'twas Soto that your honour means.
Ay, and make't manifest where she has lived,
Because authority, though it err like others,
Should be infused with so foul a spirit!
This tongue that runs so roundly in thy head
If to reprove you for this suit of yours,
HENRY BOLINGBROKE:
I do give lost; for I do feel it gone,
Lest, being seen, thy brother, tender George,
Ere one can say 'It lightens.' Sweet, good night!
And his brave son being twain.
Made me exchange my state with Tranio,
and so locks her in embracing, as if she would pin
A thousand men have broke their fasts to-day,
Who sued to me for him? who, in my rage,
A dog of that house shall move me to stand: I will
Move them no more by crossing their high will.
Be blind with tears, and break o'ercharged with grief.
LADY CAPULET:
DUKE VINCENTIO:
How well resembles it the prime of youth,
What of his heart perceive you in his face
Recoil upon me: in himself too mighty,
DUKE OF YORK:
prophecy, hark you: I advise you, let me not find
And all combined, save what thou must combine
From my own windows torn my household coat,
God save you, sir!
The wisdom of your duty, fair Bianca,
And formally, according to our law,
Nay, then,
Then, England's ground, farewell; sweet soil, adieu;
Will no more hear from thence.
Dost thou hear?
A sceptre, or an earthly sepulchre!'
That looks not heavily and full of fear.
Ay, so we will.
The causes of their death appear, unto
'Tis death for any one in Mantua
PETRUCHIO:
Katharina, I charge thee, tell these headstrong women
Here, sir! here, sir! here, sir! here, sir!
BUCKINGHAM:
With this, my lord, myself have nought to do.
And perform an old contracting.
For a quart of ale is a dish for a king.
That I am dog-weary: but at last I spied
Which to the high top-gallant of my joy
Being black put us in mind they hide the fair;
woman after this downright way of creation: is it
By God's fair ordinance conjoin together!
What is the matter
Let nature crush the sides o' the earth together
How I am galled,--mightst bespice a cup,
Your fellow Tranio here, to save my life,
I do beseech you,
To do what service am I sent for hither?
A serpent that will sting thee to the heart.
Great Duke of Lancaster, I come to thee
FRIAR PETER:
Beget your happiness, be happy then,
Your partner, as I hear, must die to-morrow,
No noise, my lord; but needful conference
On whom it will not, so; yet still 'tis just.
I, not remembering how I cried out then,
I was not much afeard; for once or twice
A meacock wretch can make the curstest shrew.
The Breton navy is dispersed by tempest:
Second Lord:
KING HENRY VI:
And for your brother, he was lately sent
O, let them keep it till thy sins be ripe,
fidiused for all the chests in Corioli, and the gold
Let me o'erleap that custom, for I cannot
And thereupon he sends you this good news,
Tush, Gremio, though it pass your patience and mine
He thus should steal upon us.
Expresseth his full tilth and husbandry.
There is no tongue that moves, none, none i' the world,
Slave, I have set my life upon a cast,
I fear, I fear,--
I do beseech your majesty, impute his words
Truly, sir, I would desire you to clap into your
And I, to sound the depth of this knavery.
Flower of warriors,
And straight disclaim their tongues? What are
Third Servingman:
First Herald:
PETRUCHIO:
that you may most uprighteously do a poor wronged
Blows you to Padua here from old Verona?
Here in these confines slily have I lurk'd,
A greater gift! O, that's the sword to it.
KING RICHARD II:
PETRUCHIO:
First Lord:
You have stood your limitation; and the tribunes
Here's packing, with a witness to deceive us all!
Therefore present to her--as sometime Margaret
Now piercing to my soul. O, thus she stood,
KING RICHARD III:
I would I were, to be revenged on thee.
Black night o'ershade thy day, and death thy life!
To visit him to-morrow or next day:
DUCHESS OF YORK:
Joy to you, Mariana! Love her, Angelo:
Unless he take the course that you have done,
PRINCE EDWARD:
That by their witchcraft thus have marked me.
Dare not relate.
And, Richard, do not frown upon my faults,
by which means I saw whose purse was best in
Trust me, my lord, all hitherto goes well;
Our scene is alter'd from a serious thing,
And I, a gasping new-deliver'd mother,
Fare ye well:
Now, go thy ways; thou hast tamed a curst shrew.
To win thy after-love I pardon thee.
At the good queen's entreaty.
Such a mad marriage never was before:
GLOUCESTER:
DUKE VINCENTIO:
So workmanly the blood and tears are drawn.
With grief that's beauty's canker, thou mightst call him
What sport shall we devise here in this garden,
We hope to find you our friend; and therefore give
To the fairness of my power.
And yet I bear a burthen like an ass,
'Tis like enough, for I stay dinner there.
the scale.
Three, they say: but 'tis thought of every one
The manage of my state; as at that time
They would not thread the gates. This kind of service
DUKE VINCENTIO:
And first-fruits of my body, from his presence
An envious thrust from Tybalt hit the life
And to my humble seat conform myself.
This cheers my heart, to see your forwardness.
I am hush'd until our city be a-fire,
bed, give him promise of satisfaction. I will
They prosper best of all when I am thence.
With the attainder of his slanderous lips.
We have at disadvantage fought and did
Alack, why am I sent for to a king,
And now what rests but that we spend the time
I'll throw thy body in another room
Send for your daughter by your servant here:
HORTENSIO:
Subdues me quite. Even till now,
Frighting her pale-faced villages with war
I tell thee, Kate, 'twas burnt and dried away;
That's worthily
And shall have your will, because our king:
Go to: what quality are they of? Elbow is your
O monstrous fault, to harbour such a thought!
Second Servingman:
What, go you toward the Tower?
Thou hadst, and more, Miranda. But how is it
Two of the dangerous consorted traitors
SIR STEPHEN SCROOP:
Messenger:
and many other evidences proclaim her with all
Thou chidest me well: proud Bolingbroke, I come
First Citizen:
My acts, decrees, and statutes I deny:
Most worthy madam,
As to be hush'd and nought at all to say:
My gracious uncle--
nothing, let him call me rogue for being so far
Good expedition be my friend, and comfort
Have I not reason to look pale and dead?
Thy son by this hath married. Wonder not,
how it takes up the shore! but that's not the
Six frozen winter spent,
Beauty too rich for use, for earth too dear!
Is nothing left me but my body's length.
I am content, so thou wilt have it so.
A most intelligencing bawd!
Come, cousin you shall be the messenger.
Good-morrow, cousin.
Therefore, to arms! And, father, do but think
And give my tongue-tied sorrows leave to speak.
O, my heart!
is a year and a quarter old, come Philip and Jacob:
Going to find a bare-foot brother out
I come to tell you things sith then befall'n.
To the contrary I have express commandment.
And with all speed post with him toward the north,
Holding Corioli in the name of Rome,
ARCHIDAMUS:
A pair of stocks, you rogue!
I doubt it not; and all these woes shall serve
Not to be weary with you, he's in prison.
Now, Signior Petruchio, how speed you with my daughter?
To gaze upon the secrets of the deep?
Here comes a man of comfort, whose advice
And rear it in the place your father's stands.
I do beseech your grace to pardon me:
If Warwick be so near as men report.
The precedent was full as long a-doing:
Thus have you breathed your curse against yourself.
And, after John of Gaunt, Henry the Fourth,
KATHARINA:
More than the common blocks: not noted, is't,
To make a stale of me amongst these mates?
Now, lords, take leave until we meet again,
If she pertain to life let her speak too.
To our gross selves? Good, good my lord, bethink you;
To stir against the butchers of his life!
Thou dost confirm his happiness for ever.
Nay, I will give thee a kiss: now pray thee, love, stay.
Ay, by and by;
Do thou but close our hands with holy words,
As will a chestnut in a farmer's fire?
GLOUCESTER:
No, by my troth, my lord.
QUEEN ELIZABETH:
I know this cannot be.
For this is thine and not King Henry's heirs'
Dost thou forget
'Tis better said than done, my gracious lord:
What fit is this, good lady?
You would entreat me rather go than stay.
O cousin, cousin!
waiting-gentlewoman in the 'scape. This has been
To go along with us; for as we think,
Now, in good time, here comes the Duke of York.
the coast on Wednesday the four-score of April,
Alas, poor duke! the task he undertakes
Miscarried by my fault, let my old life
More than to Richmond? for the selfsame heaven
I do beseech thee--
For what he did before Corioli, call him,
As draw his sword; yet he hath left undone
Bear with me; I am hungry for revenge,
As rank as any flax-wench that puts to
About his marriage, nor my own disgrace,
A lack, how may I do it, having the hour limited,
I prize it not a straw, but for mine honour,
Yet I should kill thee with much cherishing.
In faith, I will. Let me peruse this face.
Well, sir.
I think his understanding is bereft.
But tread the stranger paths of banishment.
To thee, herself, and many a Christian soul,
Come, good sweet lady. Prithee, Virgilia, turn thy
Our rustic garden's barren; and I care not
Why, no, sir.
When you should bring the plaster.
avouch the justice of your dealing?
Look you bring me in the names of some six or seven,
Look not pale, Bianca; thy father will not frown.
His soul thou canst not have; therefore be gone.
By deed-achieving honour newly named,--
Of noble blood in this declining land.
Then dreams, he of another benefice:
Yes, if you will, my lord.
Be perdurably fined? O Isabel!
Attend me, lords. The proud insulting queen,
Mistress Overdone.
But did you never swear, and break an oath?
None should come at him.
Be ruled by me, forget to think of her.
At my depart, these were his very words:
Some haunted by the ghosts they have deposed;
I am a feather for each wind that blows:
war I sent him; from whence he returned, his brows
First Servingman:
BIONDELLO:
In aught he merit not.
First Servingman:
To fly the boar before the boar pursues,
Like high-rear'd bulwarks, stand before our faces;
That it prefers itself and leaves unquestion'd
us, here is that gold I have: I'll make it as much
As the main point of this our after-meeting,
KATHARINA:
which is called true is so like an old tale, that
Smile in men's faces, smooth, deceive and cog,
For thy complexion shifts to strange effects,
Go to them, with this bonnet in thy hand;
If by your art, my dearest father, you have
you seem to be? Can you think to blow out the
When steel grows soft as the parasite's silk,
She says you have some goodly jest in hand:
The stars, I see, will kiss the valleys first:
Why art thou patient, man? thou shouldst be mad;
That I have worn so many winters out,
QUEEN ELIZABETH:
As had she studied to misuse me so.
Then shall we hear their 'larum, and they ours.
Thoughts tending to content flatter themselves
Let me but stand; I will not hurt your hearth.
The time will come when thou shalt wish for me
The gates are open, let us enter too.
By'r lady, thirty years.
Could have attain'd the effect of your own purpose,
And all the number of his fair demands
Whate'er it bodes, henceforward will I bear
O, make them joyful, grant their lawful suit!
Therefore, Lord Oxford, to prevent the worst,
Pray, sir, by your good favour,--for surely, sir, a
I'll make all speed.
And in the witness of his proper ear,
Do you not see that I am out of breath?
The scene you play were mine. For instance, sir,
PETRUCHIO:
Come, therefore, let us fly while we may fly:
Note me this, good friend;
Threw off his spirit, his appetite, his sleep,
Will deign to sip or touch one drop of it.
What storm is this that blows so contrary?
But 'twas ere I was born.
First Citizen:
Than can my ears that tragic history.
Words, life and all, old Lancaster hath spent.
True, so I am.
Of his demerits rob Cominius.
Yet that thy brazen gates of heaven may ope,
Successively from age to age, he built it?
Should presently extirpate me and mine
First Citizen:
FRIAR THOMAS:
one puritan amongst them, and he sings psalms to
Ha, ha! keep time: how sour sweet music is,
For nothing but his majesty's approach.
Till thou the lie-giver and that lie do lie
Our archers shall be placed in the midst
Then will I lay the serving-creature's dagger on
of Montagues, I pray, come and crush a cup of wine.
You knew of his departure, as you know
And, in good time, here comes the sweating lord.
Look that my staves be sound, and not too heavy.
These English woes will make me smile in France.
I had rather you did lack than I, my lord,
FRIAR LAURENCE:
For this night's watching.
You wish'd us parties, we'll deliver you
And so I chide the means that keeps me from it;
He shall be none;
O, peace! the friar is come.
Which being so horrible, so bloody, must
Let liberty make use of; space enough
Be Duke of Lancaster; let him be king.
i' the morn; I'll call you at your house: give
Came he not home to-night?
And both are ready in their offices,
My tears gainsay; for every word I speak,
I have done.
DUKE VINCENTIO:
The contents of this is the return of the duke: you
That strew the green lap of the new come spring?
JOHN OF GAUNT:
Where one part does disdain with cause, the other
What is the matter, uncle? speak;
Loud 'larums, neighing steeds, and trumpets' clang?
Then, O you blessed ministers above,
Fell Warwick's brother and by that our foe.
Why or for what these nobles were committed
child! look thee here; take up, take up, boy;
SEBASTIAN:
I'll try how you can sol, fa, and sing it.
HENRY BOLINGBROKE:
And left me to a bootless inquisition,
But judge you as you are? O, think on that;
CORIOLANUS:
turns up the white o' the eye to his discourse. But
QUEEN MARGARET:
Between these swelling wrong-incensed peers.
Haste still pays haste, and leisure answers leisure;
that kills my heart.
And brought desired help from Burgundy:
His majesty hath straitly given in charge
Than when I met thee last where now we meet:
Mine eyes are full of tears, I cannot see:
I have heard, but not believed,
My princely father then had wars in France
Out on her, hilding!
NORTHUMBERLAND:
Welcome from Mantua: what says Romeo?
Messenger:
My fear to hope, my sorrows unto joys,
KING HENRY VI:
LADY GREY:
GLOUCESTER:
GLOUCESTER:
GLOUCESTER:
Camest thou by this ill tidings? speak, thou wretch.
That he is a traitor, foul and dangerous,
Virtue with valour couched in thine eye.
Now my soul's palace is become a prison:
With what encounter so uncurrent I
When such bad dealings must be seen in thought.
CORIOLANUS:
And that bare vowel 'I' shall poison more
His rougher accents for malicious sounds,
Till they have fretted us a pair of graves
Strive to speak big and clap their female joints
I know him well: you are very welcome, sir,
GLOUCESTER:
Would bark your honour from that trunk you bear,
LADY CAPULET:
Within the earth; and, therein laid,--there lies
bastard children than war's a destroyer of men.
To beg of Hob and Dick, that do appear,
Which issued from my other angel husband
We are advertised by our loving friends
As my trust was; which had indeed no limit,
From flowery tenderness? If I must die,
them talk of a fardel and I know not what: but he
The meat was well, if you were so contented.
His eyes do drop no tears, his prayers are in jest;
Are stuck upon thee: volumes of report
Not swear it, now I am a gentleman? Let boors and
Hardly one subject.
KING HENRY VI:
Give me some ink and paper.
For Warwick bids you all farewell to meet in heaven.
Of golden metal that must round my brow
DUKE VINCENTIO:
of boots that have been candle-cases, one buckled,
Swarming with caterpillars?
What can you vouch against him, Signior Lucio?
The horn and noise o' the monster's, wants not spirit
Withdraw, my lord; I'll help you to a horse.
countenance her.
GLOUCESTER:
Cast by their grave beseeming ornaments,
Is it not too far gone? 'Tis time to part them.
it: but, first, how the poor souls roared, and the
I would the gods had nothing else to do
You are welcome, sir.
But if you faint, as fearing to do so,
Well with this lord: there was not full a month
LADY CAPULET:
And shortly mean to touch our northern shore:
Shalt with him hence.
Which then will speak, that you must
KING RICHARD III:
GLOUCESTER:
QUEEN ELIZABETH:
I pray you home to dinner with me.
That like nor peace nor war? the one affrights you,
Second Murderer:
And then to Brittany I'll cross the sea,
When Bolingbroke rode on roan Barbary,
My brave spirit!
In peace what each of them by the other lose,
Tell me, sweet Kate, and tell me truly too,
In whom already he's well graced, can not
That like a father you will deal with him
Which, since, succeeding ages have re-edified.
God pardon sin! wast thou with Rosaline?
Gentlemen, good den: a word with one of you.
But if I thrive, the gain of my attempt
I' the part that is at mercy? Five times, Marcius,
have relished among my other discredits.
Thou art a widow; yet thou art a mother,
In this your cousin's death.
Widow! a pox o' that! How came that widow in?
Monday, my lord,
Or what you will command me will I do,
For Jesu Christ in glorious Christian field,
But what he did being childish?
Greater he shall not be; if he serve God,
I am the best of them that speak this speech,
An honour! were not I thine only nurse,
PETRUCHIO:
Ay, ay, so strives the woodcock with the gin.
SEBASTIAN:
If I achieve not this young modest girl.
horn-pipes. I must have saffron to colour the warden
Sir Smile, his neighbour: nay, there's comfort in't
Ten thousand years together, naked, fasting,
Shave the head, and tie the beard; and say it was
I mean, my lords, those powers that the queen
O God, I fear thy justice will take hold
than the master: if any where I have them, 'tis by
Be yoked with his that did betray the Best!
And throw the rider headlong in the lists,
For ancient quarrels, and quite lost their hearts.
To tell thee plain, I aim to lie with thee.
And overmuch consumed his royal person:
That I think honourable: therefore mark my counsel,
My lord it shall be done.
Rather than envy you.
Ay, if I know the letters and the language.
Self-loving,--
In honour follows Coriolanus.
Before her troth-plight: say't and justify't.
To meet with joy in sweet Jerusalem.
'Tis, marvel, but that you are but newly come,
QUEEN MARGARET:
Renowned for their deeds as far from home,
Soft, swain, awhile, beseech you;
Look, what is done cannot be now amended:
You are transported by calamity
Fie, fie! what, are you mad?
Unless good counsel may the cause remove.
His name that valiant duke hath left with thee;
What, with my tongue in your tail? nay, come again,
Are you there, butcher? O, I cannot speak!
In whose cold blood no spark of honour bides.
I have not deserved it.
HENRY BOLINGBROKE:
O, no, he loves me, and he holds me dear:
At our entreaties, to amend that fault!
Third Servingman:
Near to the king in blood, and near in love
That I will shortly send thy soul to heaven,
persuasion.
name? why dost thou not speak, Elbow?
And nothing of your answer.
I never did thee harm: why wilt thou slay me?
Yet I can make my audit up, that all
Till that my nails were anchor'd in thine eyes;
The execution of my big-swoln heart
Its tenderness, and make itself a pastime
Your person most, that he would pawn his fortunes
My blood for your rude brawls doth lie a-bleeding;
Aumerle, thou liest; his honour is as true
Are idly bent on him that enters next,
The queen your mother rounds apace: we shall
Hold, take my ring.
Bids't thou me rage? why, now thou hast thy wish:
The more my wrong, the more his spite appears:
Were factious for the house of Lancaster;
A good swift simile, but something currish.
Of Pisa, sir; son to Vincentio.
So far from sounding and discovery,
You know the cause, air, of my standing here.
That weep'st to see me triumph? Ay, my dear,
MAMILLIUS:
KING RICHARD III:
Me cause to wail but teachest me the way
gods! O fine villain! A silken doublet! a velvet
As being got, your father then in France,
sighs; and conjure thee to pardon Rome, and thy
What foul play had we, that we came from thence?
thou me yet?
The higher powers forbid!
Farewell, my lord. Light to my chamber, ho!
NORTHUMBERLAND:
I wish I had a cause to seek him there,
Call it not patience, Gaunt; it is despair:
Have felt the worst of death's destroying wound
QUEEN MARGARET:
Or I'll be buried in the king's highway,
He is, and feasts the nobles of the state
And here he comes.
that may turn back to my advancement? I will bring
LADY ANNE:
That's as York thrives to beat back Bolingbroke.
Brother, farewell: I will unto the king;
his new doublet before Easter? with another, for
Second Murderer:
Let him be crown'd; in him your comfort lives:
This last old man,
Must I with base tongue give my noble heart
For ever will I walk upon my knees,
CORIOLANUS:
For our first merriment hath made thee jealous.
The one by the other.
Upon these slanderers.
What wheels? racks? fires? what flaying? boiling?
Widow, go you along. Lords, use her honourably.
At upper end o' the table, now i' the middle;
To greet him and to give him comforts. Sir,
Yield, Marcius, yield!
Who, after great Hostilius, here was king;
rather to have my hat than my heart, I will practise
conduit of many kings' reigns. I never heard of such
What must be shall be.
Let not the heavens hear these tell-tale women
A time before we came unto this cell?
The chopping French we do not understand.
For this, being smelt, with that part cheers each part;
QUEEN MARGARET:
You're welcome, sir; and he, for your good sake.
From him that has most cause to grieve it should be,
Nay, godded me, indeed. Their latest refuge
For, by your leaves, you shall not stay alone
Of his most sovereign name; consider little
There hath been in Rome strange insurrections; the
Perchance she cannot meet him: that's not so.
With aid of soldiers to this needful war.
Signior Baptista's liberality,
DUKE VINCENTIO:
They are at hand, and you shall quickly know.
Ah sir! ah sir! Well, death's the end of all.
They'll open of themselves.
That's but a cavil: he is old, I young.
Hag-seed, hence!
To take their rooms, ere I can place myself:
Unless my hand and strength could equal them.
I hope the king made peace with all of us
PRINCE EDWARD:
As if I had received them for the hire
Ye re goodly things, you voices!
'Signior Martino and his wife and daughters;
Or do I dream? or have I dream'd till now?
sheep-cote! all deaths are too few, the sharpest too easy.
With all the gracious utterance thou hast
that have been more kindly beholding to you than
Talk not to me: I will go sit and weep
As to Jove's statue, and the commons made
Under the gods, keep you in awe, which else
Thy father was, as thou art, Duke of York;
Second Servant:
An onion will do well for such a shift,
Go then; and with a countenance as clear
KING RICHARD III:
You pluck a thousand dangers on your head,
To soften Angelo: and that's my pith of business
Second Senator:
Look you, sir, here is the hand and seal of the
Even like a fawning greyhound in the leash,
Stay thy revengeful hand; thou hast no cause to fear.
And feebling such as stand not in their liking
And when this arm of mine hath chastised
to in a month.
DUKE VINCENTIO:
But in your daughter's womb I bury them:
What say'st thou, my dear nurse?
DUKE VINCENTIO:
Why, what's a moveable?
Then get your husband's lands, to do them good.
Than this; which to reiterate were sin
Heaven shield my mother play'd my father fair!
Let him, my son: he shall not need to grieve
Take heed, Signior Baptista, lest you be
QUEEN ELIZABETH:
Live in thy shame, but die not shame with thee!
My wife is slippery? If thou wilt confess,
Nay, if thy wits run the wild-goose chase, I have
I should so.
Of sweet young Rutland, by rough Clifford slain:
Slain, sir, doubtless.
There's no trust,
No matter where; of comfort no man speak:
Sir, I shall not be slack: in sign whereof,
Like damned guilty deeds to sinners' minds:
We need no grave to bury honesty:
of her first affection: his unjust unkindness, that
Now march we hence: discharge the common sort
When once she is my wife.
As much to him, else is his thanks too much.
DUKE OF AUMERLE:
Are you contented to resign the crown?
More than was ever man's, I would not prize them
It was, villain, ere thy hand did set it down.
So doves do peck the falcon's piercing talons;
wagging of your beards; and your beards deserve not
Provost, my brother Angelo will not be altered;
From Rome.
But what comes from myself, it shall scarce boot me
A traitor to his God, his king and him;
Madam, with all my heart.
The doubt is that he will seduce the rest.
A most unworthy and unnatural lord
Hath yet a kind of medicine in itself,
Becomes as aged, and doth beg the alms
KING RICHARD III:
For beauty starved with her severity
PETRUCHIO:
Rather than have that savage duke thine heir
BUCKINGHAM:
sea mocked them; and how the poor gentleman roared
When we shall hap to give 't them.
Beseech you, sir, be merry; you have cause,
For choosing me when Clarence is in place.
KING RICHARD III:
I would dissemble with my nature where
This Tunis, sir, was Carthage.
king, my master, hath sent for me; to whose feeling
To Bristol castle, which they say is held
full of vent. Peace is a very apoplexy, lethargy;
With giving him glory.
I tore it from the traitor's bosom, king;
A cherry lip, a bonny eye, a passing pleasing tongue;
Touching King Henry's oath and your succession.
KING LEWIS XI:
KING RICHARD II:
My Lord of Buckingham, if my weak oratory
Remaining in the coffer of her friends,
For, by the way, I'll sort occasion,
hours since, and he was ever precise in
report you.
If thy offences were upon record,
BIONDELLO:
March on, and mark King Richard how he looks.
KING EDWARD IV:
Who may, in the ambush of my name, strike home,
Lest thou increase the number of the dead;
thing about him. Good, then; if his face be the
Third Musician:
As you are certainly a gentleman, thereto
KATHARINA:
And never to my red-look'd anger be
And through the instrument my pate made way;
Be swift like lightning in the execution;
Perform'd in this wide gap of time since first
tell you, and is almost mature for the violent
upon you; and, I pray you, your name?
The plebeians have got your fellow-tribune
For this world frowns, and Edward's sun is clouded.
Than ever frown in Greece. By Jove himself!
I come, in kindness and unfeigned love,
NORTHUMBERLAND:
And not with such a cruel threatening look.
My throat to thee and to thy ancient malice;
That never mean to part.
if two such murderers as yourselves came to you,
Though in Rome litter'd--not Romans--as they are not,
I'll warrant him for drowning; though the ship were
Haply to wive and thrive as best I may:
She's very near her hour.
Know thine own meaning, but wouldst gabble like
I am about, let them depart.
I sometime lay here in Corioli
You mistake, sir, you mistake, sir. Pray, what do
O, give me pardon,
be a ravisher, so it cannot be denied but peace is a
You holy clergymen, is there no plot
PETRUCHIO:
Alack, for lesser knowledge! how accursed
As firmly as yourself were still in place:
NORTHUMBERLAND:
As on a pillory, looking through the lute;
I lodge my wife; I'll go in couples with her;
Had so much grace to put it in my mind.
Making both it unable for itself,
uneasy to get the cause of my son's resort thither.
Our wish, which side should win: for either thou
Are we come hither: since that thy sight,
Fie, what a slug is Hastings, that he comes not
So fairly bound? O that deceit should dwell
Now do your duty throughly, I advise you:
And that's a wonder: fathers commonly
Were brought me of your loss and his depart.
Richly in both, if justice had her right.
Hath turn'd my feigned prayer on my head
He has discover'd my design, and I
Which haply by much company might be urged:
Go whip him, 'fore the people's eyes:--his raising;
'Tis my deserving, and I do entreat it.
With wine and feeding, we have suppler souls
of your daughter, who is now queen.
My gracious father, by your kingly leave,
Neighbour, well met: whither away so fast?
Which well appeared in his lineaments,
To see it tetchy and fall out with the dug!
I'll go along, no such sight to be shown,
KING EDWARD IV:
Many and hearty thankings to you both.
And what is Edward but ruthless sea?
Sweet flower, with flowers thy bridal bed I strew,--
cause is, calling both the parties knaves. You are
Hath often still'd my brawling discontent.
Fear not, my lord, we will not stand to prate;
To disproportion me in every part,
Thy brother being carelessly encamp'd,
KATHARINA:
A son of mine, which long I have not seen.
What! we have many goodly days to see:
Do with your injuries as seems you best,
By the suggestion of the queen's allies;
fall to you upon this, more than thanks and good
Our part therein we banish with yourselves--
Good night.
VINCENTIO:
Out upon you! what a man are you!
FERDINAND:
But hearts for the event.
A hall, a hall! give room! and foot it, girls.
Mi perdonato, gentle master mine,
Acquaint the queen of your most noble offer;
Do press among the popular throngs and puff
for I was come to the whole depth of my tale; and
Here let us breathe and haply institute
Tell not me:
With lies well steel'd with weighty arguments;
And I, that haply take them from him now,
Has the old man e'er a son, sir, do you hear. an't
Before the common distribution, at
Mass, and well said; a merry whoreson, ha!
And bid his ears a little while be deaf,
For here lies Juliet, and her beauty makes
And she will speak most bitterly and strange.
Give me the light: upon thy life, I charge thee,
I partly know the man: go, call him hither.
Far be it from my heart, the thought of it!
For so your father charged me at our parting,
Call't not a plot:
Yea, but not change his spots: take but my shame.
By so much is the wonder in extremes.
Than I can wish to adders, spiders, toads,
In every county as we go along.
An easy task it is to win our own.
Commonly are; the want of which vain dew
Than the queen's life? a gracious innocent soul,
KING RICHARD II:
if room enough!
And thy assistance, is King Richard seated;
For never henceforth shall I joy again,
passion of wonder appeared in them; but the wisest
then, death, death!
What other pleasure can the world afford?
HORTENSIO:
And watch'd him how he singled Clifford forth.
In thy foul throat thou liest: Queen Margaret saw
To blaze your marriage, reconcile your friends,
Unsheathe your sword, good father; cry 'Saint George!'
The matter?
To study fashions to adorn my body:
There is no world without Verona walls,
Which not to have done I think had been in me
To voice him consul: lay the fault on us.
Here sits a king more woful than you are.
not trouble them. Come, bring away thy pack after
no harm, good man;' puts him off, slights him, with
And only live by gazing.
LADY ANNE:
I can tell you; but young Romeo will be older when
cony-catched in this business: I dare swear this
This female bastard hence and that thou bear it
Against black pagans, Turks, and Saracens:
Come, officer, away!
They are near the city?
And therefore, in mine opinion, cannot have it:
There is, there is.
And, in my company, my brother Gloucester;
Here comes the rogue.
What lawful quest have given their verdict up
All that are his so too. To do this deed,
You may my glories and my state depose,
At my poor house look to behold this night
But now the blood of twenty thousand men
If that thy bent of love be honourable,
He'll beat Aufidius 'head below his knee
To search the secret treasons of the world:
CORIOLANUS:
Ah, poor my lord, what tongue shall smooth thy name,
So incapable of help.
As far as land will let me, by your side.
Standing like stone with thee.
Sirrah, get thee to Plashy, to my sister Gloucester;
But is this true, sir?
You will not bail me, then, sir?
To frustrate both his oath and what beside
Meet me within this hour at Baynard's Castle.
And I am constant. Titus Lartius, thou
That Julius Caesar was a famous man;
For she did print your royal father off,
To be the father unto many sons.
No, good madam; I will not out of doors.
listening. Now I begin: Imprimis, we came down a
QUEEN MARGARET:
The news I have to tell your majesty
No? a dozen times at least.
PETRUCHIO:
When the alarum were struck than idly sit
Break up the seals and read.
Upbraid's with our distress. But, sure, if you
How should this grow?
I'll be at charges for a looking-glass,
For 'tis a sore upon us,
A lip of much contempt, speeds from me and
If he took you a box o' the ear, you might have your
pity: yet I'll tarry till my son come; he hallooed
For has not the divine Apollo said,
I cannot sum up sum of half my wealth.
Showing an outward pity; yet you Pilates
Good lords, make all the speedy haste you may.
From plume-pluck'd Richard; who with willing soul
My life, sir! how, I pray? for that goes hard.
With that grim ferryman which poets write of,
Hoisted sail and made away for Brittany.
'Tis very late, she'll not come down to-night:
Your state of fortune and your due of birth,
Be plain, good son, and homely in thy drift;
Northumberland, then present, wept to see it.
The motion's good indeed and be it so,
A grumbling groom, and that the girl shall find.
And I must find that title in your tongue,
for me here to-day? much upon this time have
It is my lady, O, it is my love!
As he shall think by our true diligence
First Citizen:
threshold till my lord return from the wars.
Sirrah, no more!
Cleomenes and Dion, whom you know
Was dukedom large enough: of temporal royalties
The sun will not be seen to-day;
Messenger:
Who deserves greatness
Here let us rest, if this rebellious earth
What faults he made before the last, I think
And let our hearts and eyes, like civil war,
By urging me to fury: O, be gone!
So smooth he daub'd his vice with show of virtue,
And whosoe'er gainsays King Edward's right,
First Senator:
In this hard rock, whiles you do keep from me
Then why should they love Edward more than me?
Away, my disposition, and possess me
Who will believe thee, Isabel?
FRIAR LAURENCE:
grace! Some say he shall be stoned; but that death
Five tribunes to defend their vulgar wisdoms,
Tends that thou wouldst speak to the Duke of Hereford?
From out the fiery portal of the east,
Moreover, urge his hateful luxury
Anointed let me be with deadly venom,
KING RICHARD II:
For I, too fond, might have prevented this.
In acclamations hyperbolical;
I see your brows are full of discontent,
My sighing breast shall be thy funeral bell;
My back o' t' other side,--O, my back, my back!
That valiant Clifford, with his rapier's point,
Why, what need we
GLOUCESTER:
Sit, Coriolanus; never shame to hear
DUCHESS OF YORK:
Sir, I know him, and I love him.
Of this fair couple, meets he on the way
For violent fires soon burn out themselves;
I saw him beat the surges under him,
Heaviness in me.
strange things from Rome; all tending to the good of
GLOUCESTER:
Does my deeds make the blacker!
The match is made, and all is done:
Be grafted to your relish. Yet welcome, warriors:
The rest were ragged, old, and beggarly;
Know, sir, that I am call'd Hortensio.
Sir, spare your threats:
Of more strong link asunder than can ever
I fear our happiness is at the highest.
There he must stay until the officer
That he shall soon keep Tybalt company:
O lady Fortune,
But if an humble prayer may prevail,
Yield not thy neck
Their sacred wills be done! Go, get aboard;
DUKE VINCENTIO:
How far is it to Berkeley? and what stir
Plaster you o'er, that you may be abhorr'd
So many hours must I sport myself;
I would say the truth; but to accuse him so,
'Your love says, like an honest gentleman,
HENRY BOLINGBROKE:
To them accordingly.
POLIXENES:
know to be his character, the majesty of the
Or by his foe surprised at unawares:
are coming.
I live with bread like you, feel want,
That makes us wretched by the death of thee,
To follow as it draws! I'll to my brother:
Maliciously like poison: but I cannot
All bond and privilege of nature, break!
But beg one favour at thy gracious hand,
Regard me as I do not flatter, and
For God's sake, fairly let her be entreated:
Subscribed by the consuls and patricians,
Thou hadst an Edward, till a Richard kill'd him;
Thus far into the bowels of the land
LORD ROSS:
The soldiers should have toss'd me on their pikes
My mind hath been as big as one of yours,
Well, I have done: but yet,--
Before he should thus stoop to the herd, but that
Kills for faults of his own liking!
FRIAR LAURENCE:
Gentlewoman:
Very well.
His son is thirty.
On them to took and practise by myself.
Ay, but thou canst do what I mean to ask.
Susan and she--God rest all Christian souls!--
The grass whereon thou tread'st the presence strew'd,
Our ancient word of courage, fair Saint George,
Sea-water shalt thou drink; thy food shall be
Who in this kind of merry fooling am nothing
Well, Juliet, I will lie with thee to-night.
And take deep traitors for thy dearest friends!
Oft have I heard of sanctuary men;
patience; and, in roaring for a chamber-pot,
Pass no further.
Go where you will, the king shall be commanded;
on's teeth.
The fresh springs, brine-pits, barren place and fertile:
QUEEN ELIZABETH:
That justice seizes: what know the laws
Peace, Grumio! it is the rival of my love.
Your enigma?
And afterward by substitute betroth'd
Or as a bear, encompass'd round with dogs,
Further than seen and one infect another
Our people and our peers are both misled,
JOHN OF GAUNT:
That all is done in reverend care of her;
That Edward shall be fearful of his life,
The patron of my life and liberty.
First Murderer:
Still sleep mock'd death: behold, and say 'tis well.
for this drivelling love is like a great natural,
Or worthily, as a good subject should,
Did not I tell thee yea? hadst thou not order?
Your lady mother is coming to your chamber:
So many summers dry; scarce any joy
KING EDWARD IV:
Good Master Froth, look upon his honour; 'tis for a
We have not yet been seen in any house,
My brain I'll prove the female to my soul,
This, by his voice, should be a Montague.
My mild entreaty shall not make you guilty.
Thou hast spoke too much already: get thee gone.
friar. But no more of this. Canst thou tell if
Go to, we pardon thee: therefore, in brief,
in the hatching,
O, sir, his lackey, for all the world caparisoned
Go home to bed, and like the owl by day,
What is it?--Coriolanus must I call thee?--
They call him Doricles; and boasts himself
KING EDWARD IV:
If it be so, out with it boldly, man;
And now to London all the crew are gone,
As it hath been to us rare, pleasant, speedy,
Shall I be tempted of the devil thus?
Measure for measure must be answered.
What you have seen him do and heard him speak,
Say, what's thy name?
This tiger-footed rage, when it shall find
You take my lord, I'll give him my commission
A pox o' your throat, you bawling, blasphemous,
Is fair and honest, and in his mistress' name
them thyself or take away with thee the very
Clarence, whom I, indeed, have laid in darkness,
Must give this cur the lie: and his own notion--
they be true; if not true, none were enough.
GLOUCESTER:
And what love can do that dares love attempt;
A happy gentleman in blood and lineaments,
Despised substance of divinest show!
KING EDWARD IV:
PETRUCHIO:
First Senator:
Is any woman wrong'd by this lewd fellow,
Implore her, in my voice, that she make friends
Like death, when he shuts up the day of life;
Her royal stock graft with ignoble plants,
Pray, let us go.
Where shame doth harbour, even in Mowbray's face.
QUEEN ELIZABETH:
Where is thy husband now? where be thy brothers?
Not having the power to do the good it would,
Confess, confess, hath he not hit you here?
If ever I were wilful-negligent,
Was ever match clapp'd up so suddenly?
And will to France, hoping the consequence
house-eaves, because they are lecherous. The duke
DUCHESS OF YORK:
Weigh it but with the grossness of this age,
This and much more, much more than twice all this,
'Twas full two years ere I could get a tooth.
craft, being richer than innocency, stands for the facing.
O, speak no more, for I have heard too much.
particulars; wherein every one of us has a single
Command an argosy to stem the waves.
We have a power on foot; and I had purpose
You wrong me, Signior Gremio: give me leave.
We will go walk a little in the orchard,
Go thou to Friar Penker; bid them both
Let me excuse me, and believe me so,
Then were they chosen: in a better hour,
And witch sweet ladies with my words and looks.
Strangle such thoughts as these with any thing
And such a one as he, who puts his 'shall,'
'Zounds, it is even now at my elbow, persuading me
When, I beseech you? that in his reprieve,
occupation; have at it with you.
'Twas very faintly he said 'Rise;' dismiss'd me
anything that appears not foul in the truth of my spirit.
But we will drink together; and you shall bear
Of golden sovereignty; acquaint the princess
To his new kingdom of perpetual rest.
I then do most go right.
And through him what is nearest to him, which is
And I am nothing slow to slack his haste.
Hark you, sir; you mean not her to--
Will you go along with us?
Dare rack his own: his subject am I not,
Beg pardon of the prince, and call thee back
Why, sir, I trust I may have leave to speak;
Say, I command her to come to me.
Will greet us here anon, my gentle Varrius.
This arm upholds the house of Lancaster.
Under my burthen groan'd; which raised in me
when she's fallen out with her husband. Your noble
Than pity note how much. Therefore, be gone.
You gods, look down
And Paris too. Come, I'll dispose of thee
And with his varying childness cures in me
KING EDWARD IV:
A caitiff recreant to my cousin Hereford!
Being come to knowledge that there was complaint
Now hath my soul brought forth her prodigy,
Thou hast affected the fine strains of honour,
Command these fretting waters from your eyes
I mean, an we be in choler, we'll draw.
Where I have learn'd me to repent the sin
The ground indeed is tawny.
In man as well as herbs, grace and rude will;
My tongue will tell the anger of my heart,
Messenger:
Be an arch-villain; believe it, royal prince:
Have hent the gates, and very near upon
Upon this present action.
Take to you, as your predecessors have,
Lord mayor,--
Think'st thou I am an executioner?
Sir, the year growing ancient,
monstrous members.
Report of fashions in proud Italy,
Your safety manifested.
Here's the midwife's name to't, one Mistress
DUKE VINCENTIO:
Keeps Death his court and there the antic sits,
That taught his son the office of a fowl!
When I arrived and heard thee, that made gape
KING RICHARD III:
Fly hence, and leave me: think upon these gone;
In stiff unwieldy arms against thy crown:
Which in a set hand fairly is engross'd,
Do not believe it. Fewness and truth, 'tis thus:
For present comfort and for future good,
Gentlemen, that I may soon make good
We follow'd then our lord, our lawful king:
And almost shoulder'd in the swallowing gulf
You know to-morrow is the wedding-day.
Ghosts of young Princes:
Back, foolish tears, back to your native spring;
'Tis love I bear thy glories makes me speak.
And utter ruin of the house of York.
To taste of thy most worst? Thy tyranny
Which now's upon's; without the which this story
What, wilt thou not? then, Clarence, do it thou.
Heaven and fortune bar me happy hours!
I will encounter darkness as a bride,
A curse begin at very root on's heart,
man; prove it.
Not a hair perish'd;
For this, be sure, to-night thou shalt have cramps,
And then take hands:
Nay, but, fellow, fellow,--
Thomas of Norfolk, what say'st thou to this?
QUEEN ELIZABETH:
Hath he deserved to lose his birthright thus?
That he did plot the Duke of Gloucester's death,
He'll fright you up, i' faith. Will it not be?
For when I was a king, my flatterers
Was ever son so rued a father's death?
Appointed to direct these fair designs.
the judgment-day.
Call in the letters patent that he hath
He misses not much.
Or what is worst will follow.
HORTENSIO:
Come your ways, sir; come.
wish him to her father.
That in himself which he spurs on his power
As he is but my father's brother's son,
Where were you born, friend?
To make the truth appear where it seems hid,
A troubled mind drave me to walk abroad;
To seek the empty, vast and wandering air;
He tells her something
The crown will find an heir: great Alexander
Didst thou not mark the king, what words he spake,
man, I think, that shall set them in present action.
Come on, strike up!
And since mine eyes are witness of her lightness,
Say there be;
I will make my very house reel tonight: a letter for
Who all this while hath revell'd in the night
What's the matter?
Why, how now, daughter Katharina! in your dumps?
On their sustaining garments not a blemish,
The covering sky is nothing; Bohemia nothing;
If thou neglect'st or dost unwillingly
Which have for long run by the hideous law,
And make high majesty look like itself,
I do well believe your highness; and
KING HENRY VI:
From forth thy reach he would have laid thy shame,
And, if I fall not in my deep intent,
Good night, good night! as sweet repose and rest
And mine with hers, and thine, and Margaret's.
Which modern lamentations might have moved?
If not, Signior Gremio:
Of the new'st and finest, finest wear-a?
Poor heart, adieu! I pity thy complaining.
Hear me, you wrangling pirates, that fall out
horse in Padua to begin his wooing that would
Be so received. But thus: if powers divine
Is richly noted and here justified
Be not her maid, since she is envious;
Not I, believe me: thus I'll visit her.
This proveth Edward's love and Warwick's honesty.
Unto my mother's prayers I bend my knee.
All this is true.
Nor how to use your brothers brotherly,
A thriving issue: there is no lady living
A bribe to pay my sword: I do refuse it;
Thou, Richard, shalt to the Duke of Norfolk,
Here 'tis; commends it to your blessing.
Not for Bohemia, nor the pomp that may
in your ward sufficient to serve it?
Thy knee bussing the stones--for in such business
'They have press'd a power, but it is not known
be not too rough for some that know little but
Would I not have; but nature should bring forth,
Hadst thou but loved him half so well as I,
Say, she shall be a high and mighty queen.
Lieutenant:
The fresh-brook muscles, wither'd roots and husks
Partly for that her promised proportions
That mought not be distinguished; but at last
Were best he do it secretly, alone.
That rounds the mortal temples of a king
An outward honour for an inward toil;
GLOUCESTER:
KING HENRY VI:
First Lord:
I willingly obey your command.
Of these fair edifices 'fore my wars
I am combined by a sacred vow
On pain of death, no person be so bold
KING EDWARD IV:
KATHARINA:
When he shall split thy very heart with sorrow,
I take it, is a gentlemanlike offer.
That she is living,
To see your wives dishonour'd to your noses,--
Now, Clifford, I have singled thee alone:
Third Servingman:
The best way is to venge my Gloucester's death.
His realm a slaughter-house, his subjects slain,
I care not.
Though bearing misery, I desire my life
Read o'er this paper while the glass doth come.
Ere he, that should be husband, comes to woo.
Away! for vengeance comes along with them:
LADY GREY:
And not against his friends; his noble hand
If you'll bestow a small--of what you have little--
home: he has more cause to be proud. Where is he wounded?
And steep'd in blood? Ah, what an unkind hour
Where rude misgovern'd hands from windows' tops
Whilst I awhile obsequiously lament
GLOUCESTER:
These accusations and these grievous crimes
Marry, farewell! I pray you, sir, what saucy
I will converse with iron-witted fools
Away with him! and let her sport herself
And in possession twenty thousand crowns.
I am glad on 't: then we shall ha' means to vent
And therefore fortify your hold, my lord.
And his great person perish.
O that I were a mockery king of snow,
Hard-hearted Clifford, take me from the world:
Nay, prithee, dispatch: the gentleman is half
To twinkle in their spheres till they return.
O, yes, my lord, but very idle words:
KING HENRY VI:
PETRUCHIO:
good purpose. Doth your honour mark his face?
To buy you a better husband.
HORTENSIO:
And his old hate unto you; besides, forget not
What cannot be, slight work.
PETRUCHIO:
And will deny him:
Come you to make confession to this father?
Why, so I am, in mind; and that's enough.
Whose settled visage and deliberate word
PETRUCHIO:
But smother'd it within my panting bulk,
BUCKINGHAM:
All's well; and might have been much better, if
Than that which lives to fear: make it your comfort,
What, shall we suffer this? let's pluck him down:
Remember, as thou read'st, thy promise pass'd:
Of what you promised me.
And next his throat unto the butcher's knife.
Yet never means to wed where he hath woo'd.
Prevent it, resist it, let it not be so,
And nothing come in partial. Sir, he must die.
Re-quicken'd what in flesh was fatigate,
And buried, gentle Tyrrel?
What if he had said 'widower AEneas' too? Good Lord,
Who's that which calls?
Following the fliers at the very heels,
Give me my sin again.
Would be your country's pleader, your good tongue,
And you that do abet him in this kind
What must I do?
That I am clear from this misdeed of Edward's,
Obey the bride, you that attend on her;
thy shoulders that a milkmaid, if she be in love,
How sweet a thing it is to wear a crown;
Come, stir, stir, stir! the second cock hath crow'd,
Where be these knaves? What, no man at door
Is altogether just: therefore bring forth,
Schoolmasters will I keep within my house,
always factionary on the party of your general.
Is that you reconcile them: while the Volsces
homely foolery already. I know, sir, we weary you.
Doth more solicit me than your exclaims,
conspectuities glean out of this character, if I be
Because their breaths with sweetmeats tainted are:
In this self-place where now we mean to stand.
salt water.
It is a reeling world, indeed, my lord;
Once more, the more to aggravate the note,
Thy hounds shall make the welkin answer them
And made her widow to a woful bed?
GLOUCESTER:
Which stretched to their servants, daughters, wives,
QUEEN MARGARET:
Lest barbarism, making me the precedent,
And not unluckily against the bias.
Who meets us here? my niece Plantagenet
KING HENRY VI:
Where is Lucentio?
DUKE VINCENTIO:
On like conditions, will have counter-seal'd.
Take you the lute, and you the set of books;
So thou wilt woo; but else, not for the world.
Free speech and fearless I to thee allow.
To say 'King Richard:' alack the heavy day
I cannot think it. Hark! what noise is this?
PRINCE EDWARD:
I bless the time
Second Gentleman:
LADY GREY:
Is very good meat in lent
DUKE VINCENTIO:
The brother blindly shed the brother's blood,
Come, boy; I am past moe children, but thy sons and
Than I of yours;
Presuming on an ague's privilege,
And then awake as from a pleasant sleep.
But for his own; and for the right of that
He's sentenced; no more hearing.
Be rush'd upon! Thy thrice noble cousin
Ay, such a pleasure as incaged birds
My gay apparel for an almsman's gown,
I'll frame convenient peace. Now, good Aufidius,
BRAKENBURY:
That no man enter till my tale be done.
Which would be so much the more dangerous
One writ with me in sour misfortune's book!
Unless you call it good to pity him,
So do I ever:
Their woes are parcell'd, mine are general.
Sharp misery had worn him to the bones:
Beseech you, father.
Your sued-for tongues?
QUEEN MARGARET:
My mind will never grant what I perceive
But the safer when 'tis back'd with France.
QUEEN MARGARET:
And so it shall be so for Katharina.
thief thinks it little enough: so every true man's
To be revenged on him that loveth you.
Second Murderer:
Near to the town of Leicester, as we learn
My life were better ended by their hate,
Say that again.
KING EDWARD IV:
Sirrah, leave us to ourselves: we must confer.
They fear us not, but issue forth their city.
That which his noble ancestors achieved with blows:
Why strew'st thou sugar on that bottled spider,
But how is it that great Plantagenet
KING EDWARD IV:
To lie in cold obstruction and to rot;
My lord, the mayor of London comes to greet you.
And now in plainness do confess to thee,
For I am all the subjects that you have,
Speak with me, pity me, open the door.
And presently, when you have drawn your number,
Most royal sir, from thence; from him, whose daughter
For thou wilt lie upon the wings of night
Whose credit with the judge, or own great place,
And all unlook'd for from your highness' mouth:
Yes, faith, sir.
And yet as heavy as my weight should be.
Who brought it?
That do conspire my death with devilish plots
To lose itself in a fog, where being three parts
Be opposite all planets of good luck
A peevish self-will'd harlotry it is.
As 'twere in scorn of eyes, reflecting gems,
Could ever yet cut breath? Let no man mock me,
My only love sprung from my only hate!
My sisterly remorse confutes mine honour,
We shall proceed with Angelo.
Nearer in bloody thoughts, but not in blood,
Though he be blunt, I know him passing wise;
Ay, forsooth.
This, this All-Souls' day to my fearful soul
And whet on Warwick to this enterprise.
Should not be able to encounter mine.
KING RICHARD II:
Mark and perform it, see'st thou! for the fail
Lord Marshal:
That thou hast wronged in the time o'erpast;
He did inform the truth: but for our gentlemen,
As with a club, dash out my desperate brains?
So rarely kind, are as interpreters
This isle with Calibans.
My mind presumes, for his own good and ours.
two tribunes:
Vouchsafe, defused infection of a man,
Farewell, my lord: securely I espy
Now, by the holy mother of our Lord,
And for my sister and her princely sons,
KING EDWARD IV:
Welcome, my lord how far off lies your power?
Is true and false; and what he with his oath
Must all determine here?
And those that you'll procure from King Leontes--
Who made thee, then, a bloody minister,
I trust I shall. My women, come; you have leave.
Women and children of so high a courage,
Are you in earnest, sir?
KING RICHARD III:
HENRY BOLINGBROKE:
I do constantly believe you. The time is come even
'Tis almost morning; I would have thee gone:
Bloody with spurring, fiery-red with haste.
Nay, that's not so.
great opposer, Coriolanus, being now in no request
Good, yet remember whom thou hast aboard.
For mocking marriage with a dame of France.
Here, master: what cheer?
Strange dream, that gives a dead man leave
He thinks that you should bear me on your shoulders.
This may plant courage in their quailing breasts;
And I'll corrupt her manners, stain her beauty;
See, where he stands between two clergymen!
KING EDWARD IV:
Hark! a drum.
Have I deserved at your highness' hands.
The god of soldiers,
There was a friar told me of this man.
Who shall reward you better for my life
But such a day to-morrow as to-day,
To the strict deputy; bid herself assay him:
this is the time that the unjust man doth thrive.
That seems disgracious in the city's eyes,
drab I purchased this caparison, and my revenue is
CLEOMENES:
Except like curs to tear us all to pieces.
Bad news, by'r lady; seldom comes the better:
married man, he's his wife's head, and I can never
Shall nothing benefit your knowledge, nor
Your ships are stay'd at Venice, and the duke,
Lord Mayor:
God witness with me, I have wept for thine.
KING RICHARD III:
So many hours must I tend my flock;
Richard not far from hence hath hid his head.
Thy honour, state and seat is due to me.
Death, that hath suck'd the honey of thy breath,
Here, take away this dish.
To Bolingbroke are we sworn subjects now,
To sit upon a hill, as I do now,
A ghostly father, belike. Who knows that Lodowick?
Then vail your ignorance; if none, awake
Then I must not say no.
Now, fair befall you! he deserved his death;
Whate'er I read to her, I'll plead for you
So Romeo would, were he not Romeo call'd,
I was your mother much upon these years
They dropp'd, as by a thunder-stroke. What might,
O prince! O cousin! husband! O, the blood is spilt
Lieutenant:
Can this be so? did Angelo so leave her?
to comfort me.
To, to, to--
Keep Rome in safety, and the chairs of justice
That do corrupt my air, I banish you;
BUCKINGHAM:
sister. But mark how heavily this befell to the
'Tell him, in hope he'll prove a widower shortly,
Say, what art thou that talk'st of kings and queens?
Still-waking sleep, that is not what it is!
We are the queen's abjects, and must obey.
professes a hot-house, which, I think, is a very ill house too.
ANTIGONUS:
NORTHUMBERLAND:
In to our tent; the air is raw and cold.
Knows he of this?
With that she's big with; for 'tis Polixenes
the goodness that is cheap in beauty makes beauty
good, sir, to rise and be put to death.
As the Antipodes are unto us,
You precious winners all; your exultation
Concluding 'Stay: not yet.'
In this our fabric, if that they--
Of King Polixenes, it should here be laid,
Do not draw the curtain.
AUTOLYCUS:
Shepherdess,
Which for some reasons, sir, I mean to see.
I think he is: but a greater soldier than he you wot on.
Was ever book containing such vile matter
When nights are longest there: I'll take my leave.
So looks the pent-up lion o'er the wretch
How lies their battle? know you on which side
Your own desert!
Here pitch our battle; hence we will not budge.
DUKE OF YORK:
I'll follow you, and tell what answer
Under your good correction, I have seen,
To make her come and know her keeper's call,
Why, then let's home again. Come, sirrah, let's away.
come to pass, say Pompey told you so.
It is a surplus of your grace, which never
GLOUCESTER:
O heavens! O heavens!
POLIXENES:
See, see, King Richard doth himself appear,
Are servanted to others: though I owe
Till he did look on me: since it is so,
And take thy office from thee, on my peril.
Thyself, forsooth, hereafter theirs, so far
Starr'd most unluckily, is from my breast,
To make a false one.
GLOUCESTER:
ah, the immortal passado! the punto reverso! the
And his contract by deputy in France;
And craves no other tribute at thy hands
The weariest and most loathed worldly life
Third Servingman:
But how, is to be question'd; for I saw her,
Right noble is thy merit, well I wot.
And make your channel his? If he have power
THOMAS MOWBRAY:
QUEEN ELIZABETH:
There shouldst thou find one heinous article,
true, think you?
Tread not upon him. Masters all, be quiet;
habit no loss shall touch her by my company.
Gentleman:
For through this laund anon the deer will come;
Tell me their words as near as thou canst guess them.
Who prays continually for Richmond's good:
Ay, worthy Menenius; and with most prosperous
GLOUCESTER:
So. What trade are you of, sir?
Droop not; adieu. Farewell, my wife, my mother:
Each substance of a grief hath twenty shadows,
By his command
Even with the stroke and line of his great justice:
DUKE OF YORK:
Lent him our terror, dress'd him with our love,
Wife to thy Edward, to thy slaughter'd son,
I have provided for you: stay awhile,
That hour destroy us?
And some few vanities that make him light;
I do remember an apothecary,--
Go, get thee gone, thou false deluding slave,
Ay, but thou talk'st as if thou wert a king.
That's yet unbruised: bring me but out at gate.
Thou seest what's past, go fear thy king withal.
That thought he could do more, a very little
No, not that name was given me at the font,
Ay, almost slain, for he is taken prisoner,
Then, tell me, what doth he upon the sea?
He, on his right, asking a wife for Edward.
Why, Via! to London will we march amain,
preposterous estate as we are.
No cock of mine; you crow too like a craven.
Verily, I do not jest with you; there came news from
Brave warriors, march amain towards Coventry.
You, my good friends,'--this says the belly, mark me,--
A place of potency and sway o' the state,
GLOUCESTER:
be a reasonable man, grew so in love with the
Or did he make the jest against his will?
Richard hath best deserved of all my sons.
If you should smile he grows impatient.
Madam, we'll play at bowls.
That look too lofty in our commonwealth:
Minion, thou liest. Is't not Hortensio?
thou, Trot? Is the world as it was, man? Which is
they always use to laugh at nothing.
'Twas told me you were rough and coy and sullen,
QUEEN ELIZABETH:
Permitted by our dastard nobles, who
Rest you, whiles I lament King Henry's corse.
CORIOLANUS:
Ere twice the sun hath made his journal greeting
and an express command, under penalty, to deliver
O, he was gentle, mild, and virtuous!
Aumerle, thou weep'st, my tender-hearted cousin!
Urge neither charity nor shame to me:
I cannot mend it, I must needs confess,
I am a Roman; and my services are,
First Conspirator:
Have you not set them on?
Villain, I say, knock me at this gate
And die among our neighbours. Nay, behold 's:
Yet again! what do you here? Shall we give o'er
But then a noise did scare me from the tomb;
Do curse the gout, serpigo, and the rheum,
Or else my kingdom stands on brittle glass.
Which in myself I boldly will defend;
A begging prince what beggar pities not?
Come, sir, your passado.
not, man; here's no harm intended to thee.
And gape at widest to glut him.
That shall remain a poison where it is,
Go, girl; I cannot blame thee now to weep;
CORIOLANUS:
Than that a sister, by redeeming him,
There's fire ready; and therefore, good Grumio, the news.
A witty mother! witless else her son.
She lacks instructions, for she seems a mistress
Within my age. But reason with the fellow,
Cursed be I that did so! All the charms
Then none but I shall turn his jest to sorrow.
Are bound to pray for you both.
You cannot guess wherefore the Welshman comes.
Will you go to them? I will bring you thither.
No, my good lord; it was by private message.
See, ruthless queen, a hapless father's tears:
He should receive his punishment in thanks:
He's sudden, if a thing comes in his head.
He is coming.
chance to fail, he hath sentenced himself.
For I would commune with you of such things
upon too trivial motion; one that converses more
change garments with this gentleman: though the
Which art possess'd now to depose thyself.
HORTENSIO:
Framed in the prodigality of nature,
But, Clifford, tell me, didst thou never hear
Pray you, poor gentleman, take up some other
A knack, a toy, a trick, a baby's cap:
Third Citizen:
thy services by leaving me now: the need I have of
The duke is very strangely gone from hence;
What do you think?
As if that whatsoever god who leads him
attentiveness wounded his daughter; till, from one
A blasting and a scandalous breath to fall
That I may never have you in suspect.
The cause of his arrival here in arms:
trick of it?
First Citizen:
POLIXENES:
My lord, you shall o'er-rule my mind for once.
How now! who is it?
The heavens give safety to your purposes!
There's some conceit or other likes him well,
I'll after him, and see the event of this.
Her suit is now to repossess those lands;
Madam, before you touch the instrument,
CORIOLANUS:
Your honour not o'erthrown by your desires,
I shall do good.
That you stand pensive, as half malcontent?
He will shake
Which I can scarcely bear.
And descant on mine own deformity:
HORTENSIO:
On Wednesday next we solemnly set down
Thy death-bed is no lesser than thy land
He cannot live, I hope; and must not die
O, let him marry her.
And now I give my sensual race the rein:
tongues into those wounds and speak for them; so, if
That as his worthy deeds did claim no less
NORTHUMBERLAND:
Shall we hear from thee, Tyrrel, ere we sleep?
three days his head to be chopped off.
QUEEN MARGARET:
The senate's courtesy? Let deeds express
With oath kept waking and with brawling fed:
For how I firmly am resolved you know;
GLOUCESTER:
BUCKINGHAM:
May I change these garments?
Make way, unruly woman!
Hang 'em! They say!
Is this of hers! Lord cardinal, will your grace
Come, sir; we will better it in Pisa.
as the morality of imprisonment. What's thy
into my note.
What's in a name? that which we call a rose
Second Citizen:
sufficiently manage, must either stay to execute
The best and wholesomest spirts of the night
I will devise a death as cruel for thee
And tells us, what occasion of import
He that knows better how to tame a shrew,
You weary those that refresh us: pray, let's see
His regiment lies half a mile at least
Unto our sister Bona.
My royal father, cheer these noble lords
Remember I have done thee worthy service;
The way twice o'er.
not what to say. We will give you sleepy drinks,
Will thereto be obedient, I have reason;
The sullen passage of thy weary steps
Confess yourselves wondrous malicious,
And thou, brave Oxford, wondrous well beloved,
But so it is, my haste doth call me hence,
A man of their infirmity.
And the new deputy now for the duke--
Since I suppose we are made to be no stronger
Now in good time, here comes the duke himself.
My good lords both, with all the heed I may.
Thou showest the naked pathway to thy life,
You must, as we do, gratify this gentleman,
How now, good fellow! why shakest thou so? Fear
When evil deeds have their permissive pass
DUKE OF YORK:
now with, 'knocking at the gate'?
To me a break-neck. Happy star, reign now!
This deadly blot in thy digressing son.
Now, by the world--
Then speak at once what is it thou demand'st.
My house and welcome on their pleasure stay.
He would not flatter Neptune for his trident,
Go take her hence, and marry her instantly.
Lest, being over-proud in sap and blood,
BRAKENBURY:
Come, Grey, come, Vaughan, let us all embrace:
One of them you shall be.
At Stony-Stratford will they be to-night:
In that word's death; no words can that woe sound.
I call them forth to credit her.
He shall be thrown down the Tarpeian rock
Aim'd at your highness, no inveterate malice.
Affection is not rated from the heart:
merchant was this, that was so full of his ropery?
In that be made more bitter. Fear o'ershades me:
Can I demand.
Marry, peace it bodes, and love and quiet life,
grant this.
I conjure thee, by all the parts of man
And yet she is inferior to none.
The other down, unseen and full of water:
KING RICHARD III:
No, not a whit: I find you passing gentle.
And know their spring, their head, their
That he did stay?
Scaring the ladies like a crow-keeper;
I'll make my heaven to dream upon the crown,
DUKE OF YORK:
treacherous,
You tallow-face!
helped her: there your charity would have lacked footing.
I have reserved alive.
I, as I may--that which I would I cannot,--
Not separated with the racking clouds,
MAMILLIUS:
I shall lack voice: the deeds of Coriolanus
Who, newly in the seat, that it may know
Never to marry with her though she would entreat:
A cold world, Curtis, in every office but thine; and
PETRUCHIO:
Great God of heaven, say Amen to all!
A lie that it must bear? Well, I will do't:
No, by my troth, I did not mean such love.
And often up and down my sons were toss'd,
This cannot be but a great courtier.
Here lives a caitiff wretch would sell it him.'
LADY GREY:
VINCENTIO:
That thou dost love my daughter from thy soul:
By my troth, I'll go with thee to the lane's end:
Enough, with over-measure.
That is not glad to see thee! You are three
Would none but I might venge my cousin's death!
LADY ANNE:
On him, his sons, his favourites and his friends.
Remain a pinch'd thing; yea, a very trick
more mature dignities and royal necessities made
cannot be spoken of. There might you have beheld one
HENRY BOLINGBROKE:
Now, good my lord, give me the scope of justice
Some troops pursue the bloody-minded queen,
your honour.
Since fate, against thy better disposition,
And throw't against the wind. To the market-place!
KING EDWARD IV:
Die, perish! Might but my bending down
Tying him to aught; so putting him to rage,
on thee, rather than have these off.
GLOUCESTER:
At some hours in the night spirits resort;--
And, for the most, become much more the better
BUCKINGHAM:
Second Citizen:
Of all the days of the year, upon that day:
Engage it to the trial, if thou darest.
GLOUCESTER:
Messenger:
A pretty peat! it is best
But ere sunset I'll make thee curse the deed.
his happier affairs may be, are to me unknown: but I
LORD ROSS:
He knew me as a wife. As this is true,
When you are cloudy.
Marry, so I mean, sweet Katharina, in thy bed:
I told you, I, he was a frantic fool,
A bridegroom say you? 'tis a groom indeed,
But none can cure their harms by wailing them.
And had he match'd according to his state,
Second Citizen:
O, how I long to have some chat with her!
being well-advised.
PETRUCHIO:
Madam, we will attend your grace.
BUCKINGHAM:
Best fitteth my degree or your condition
Ay, pilgrim, lips that they must use in prayer.
Conceives by me! How likes Hortensio that?
For once allow'd the skilful pilot's charge?
First Gentleman:
The one part suffer'd, the other will I do.
A bawd of eleven years' continuance, may it please
petitionary countrymen. The good gods assuage thy
Fool-hardiness; not I.
And then I'll bring thee to the present business
I rather wish you foes than hollow friends:
Ay, my good lord:--my lord, I should say rather;
On Thursday, sir? the time is very short.
GLOUCESTER:
Proceeded to you; therefore take your honours.
Have you a catalogue
Give up your body to such sweet uncleanness
He's simple and tells much.
In the remembrance of a weeping queen.
Let me remember thee what thou hast promised,
BUCKINGHAM:
Some food we had and some fresh water that
Blush, Blush, thou lump of foul deformity;
Now fair befal thee and thy noble house!
Pursuivant:
Let him that makes but trifles of his eyes
I am not barren to bring forth complaints
A Bohemian born, but here nursed un and bred; one
CORIOLANUS:
Found out the remedy. How would you be,
Nay, pray, be patient: if you refuse your aid
estimation of them; 'tis a condition they account
This is the place; there, where the torch doth burn.
'Thanks, gentle citizens and friends,' quoth I;
wear their plackets where they should bear their
fitted for 't.
Nay, if I turn mine eyes upon myself,
Afresh within me, and these thy offices,
Shall see us rising in our throne, the east,
Why do you say 'thwack our general '?
Untimely smother'd in their dusky graves.
GLOUCESTER:
Say how he died, for I will hear it all.
Thou and my bosom henceforth shall be twain.
Was to send him; for whose old love I have,
LORD ROSS:
Looking awry upon your lord's departure,
Urge it no more, my Lord Northumberland.
What doth she say, my Lord of Buckingham?
Do come with words as medicinal as true,
And look to have it yielded with all willingness.
And yet my nature never in the fight
And George, of Clarence: Warwick, as ourself,
Go, Biondello, bid your mistress come to me.
you not heard speak of Mariana, the sister of
shalt accompany us to the place; where we will, not
CORIOLANUS:
The measure done, I'll watch her place of stand,
To bring false generations: they are co-heirs;
They say she's mad.
Thou poisonous slave, got by the devil himself
A shallow plash to plunge him in the deep
Stands for my bounty. But who comes here?
Apothecary:
Stay, yet look back with me unto the Tower.
Have I not in my time heard lions roar?
By all external warrants, show it now,
Nay, come, I pray thee, speak; good, good nurse, speak.
GLOUCESTER:
Or else he must not only die the death,
hanging, or of some death more long in
If this be nothing.
and my good friend Petruchio! How do you all at Verona?
But you will take exceptions to my boon.
DUKE VINCENTIO:
And, pretty fool, it stinted and said 'Ay.'
Take her hence:
BISHOP OF CARLISLE:
None rare, my lord.
And, being a winner, God give you good night!
Come, go with me.
excellent news of your husband.
The precious image of our dear Redeemer,
First Watchman:
If you do fight in safeguard of your wives,
Within thy help and holy physic lies:
I carried from thee, dear; and my true lip
Have patience, madam: there's no doubt his majesty
A dram of poison, such soon-speeding gear
Take that, until thou bring me better news.
By heaven, I love thee better than myself;
Dabbled in blood; and he squeak'd out aloud,
Die neither mother, wife, nor England's queen!
This is All-Souls' day, fellows, is it not?
do you think of the trade, Pompey? is it a lawful trade?
3 KING HENRY VI
I have ta'en a due and wary note upon't:
So prosper I, as I swear perfect love!
If you'll implore it, that will free your life,
velvet. Thou art the list.
Shame come to Romeo!
his tongue,
DUKE VINCENTIO:
The heavy accent of thy moving tongue
His statutes cancell'd and his treasure spent;
Turn this way, Henry, and regard them not.
In Volscian breasts. That we have been familiar,
Than to perform it first.
'cum privilegio ad imprimendum solum:' to the
Let him know't.
I fear me, never.
As rich shall Romeo's by his lady's lie;
Of the world's ransom, blessed Mary's Son,
Third Servingman:
And all those twenty could but kill one life.
So much as of a thought of ill in him.
Never was seen so black a day as this:
Prithee bring him in; and let him approach singing.
None, but that there is so great a fever on
She will be pleased; then wherefore should I doubt?
QUEEN MARGARET:
Boatswain:
SEBASTIAN:
Where's my spaniel Troilus? Sirrah, get you hence,
The time to come.
Keeps good old York there with his men of war?
BALTHASAR:
And wherefore gaze this goodly company,
CORIOLANUS:
From your own mouth, my lord, did I this deed.
O, help me, help me! pluck but off these rags; and
And aid thee in this doubtful shock of arms:
plebeians: I will be bold to take my leave of you.
The bastard brains with these my proper hands
My liege, the wound that bred this meeting here
We will before the walls of Rome tomorrow
Thou must be married to no man but me;
To look upon my sometimes royal master's face.
Call them again, my lord, and accept their suit.
Who, falling in the flaws of her own youth,
And Warwick rages like a chafed bull:
Yea, scandalous to the world.
It must be great that can inherit us
From that contented hap which I enjoy'd,
Cast off his chains of bondage and embrace
The king, of his own royal disposition,
And being thus frighted swears a prayer or two
I did not see your grace: humbly on my knee
Happily met, my lady and my wife!
From giving aid which late I promised.
With love's light wings did I o'er-perch these walls;
The door is open, sir; there lies your way;
He is dishonour'd by a man which ever
I leave him to your hand. What muffled fellow's that?
Go, by this token: rise, and lend thine ear:
not be long; that the time may have all shadow and
Ariel, thy charge
And, by the grace of God and this mine arm,
Upon the stroke of four.
This but begins the woe, others must end.
No: the princess hearing of her mother's statue,
Begun to tell me what I am, but stopp'd
Sailing in this salt flood; the winds, thy sighs;
Dismiss my soldiers, or capitulate
Incertain lookers on. What were more holy
GLOUCESTER:
With any scruple; your scope is as mine own
Dost grant me, hedgehog? then, God grant me too
How now, noble Pompey! What, at the wheels of
Bugle bracelet, necklace amber,
That Norfolk lies: here do I throw down this,
May these same instruments, which you profane,
And copy of the father, eye, nose, lip,
As that is desperate which we would prevent.
That this his love was an eternal plant,
'Tis done by me, and ends in 'Margaret.'
What doth befall you here. So, fare you well;
To thee I pray; sweet Clifford, pity me!
O cheerful colours! see where Oxford comes!
To what, I pray?
Now, for I know the Breton Richmond aims
they have approved their virtues.
Flatter my sorrows with report of it;
Within two hours.
KING LEWIS XI:
To take is not to give.
Can tie the gall up in the slanderous tongue?
And in my loyal bosom lies his power.
Is't so, indeed.
A piece of ice: if thou doubt it, thou mayst slide
His majesty
So, now I have mine own again, be gone,
But now mischance hath trod my title down,
Things for the cook, sir; but I know not what.
Hath been beyond account.
I know not where; but wheresoever, I wish him well.
Three, my most gracious lord.
With tears drawn from her eyes by your foul wrongs.
With colours fairer painted their foul ends.
Yon light is not day-light, I know it, I:
KING HENRY VI:
Than your own weak-hinged fancy, something savours
Do strike at my injustice.
And of our labours thou shalt reap the gain.
Come, come, my boy; we will to sanctuary.
Farewell, old Gaunt: thy sometimes brother's wife
to himself, by the instruction of his frailty, many
If presently you will take horse with him,
Counsel o' the war, but at his nurse's tears
To stale 't a little more.
No better term than this,--thou art a villain.
No more shall be the neighbour to my counsel:
And in this covert will we make our stand,
Witness my son, now in the shade of death;
Than Hector's forehead when it spit forth blood
So, master mayor: these gates must not be shut
Then vail your stomachs, for it is no boot,
Hold, hold, hold, hold!
But in your bride you bury brotherhood.
And long live thou and these thy forward sons!
England, bound in with the triumphant sea
Forswear Bianca and her love for ever.
Thou frantic woman, what dost thou make here?
Peer'd forth the golden window of the east,
Wouldst thou withdraw it? for what purpose, love?
thee thine own goodness hath made; better not to
Go, take it up unto thy master's use.
And let it keep one shape, till custom make it
Tell o'er your woes again by viewing mine:
O, sir, Lucentio slipp'd me like his greyhound,
He'll think anon it lives.
And sent me over by Berkeley, to discover
And these same thoughts people this little world,
HENRY BOLINGBROKE:
The father of this seeming lady and
PETRUCHIO:
Learn him forbearance from so foul a wrong.
That thought them sure of you.
Were it not that my fellow-school-master
I will with all expedient duty see you:
I was about to speak and tell him plainly,
His word is more than the miraculous harp; he hath
Have done the time more benefit and graced
By foul play, as thou say'st, were we heaved thence,
Hath made us by-words to our enemies.
As in a theatre, the eyes of men,
Where be the thronging troops that follow'd thee?
BUCKINGHAM:
To him had left it solely.
Shall I so much dishonour my fair stars,
DUKE VINCENTIO:
To pluck him headlong from the usurped throne.
The glorious gods sit in hourly synod about thy
And I seeing this came thence for very shame;
shall use me hereafter, drybeat the rest of the
For then, I hope, thou wilt not keep him long,
How now, my lord! what hap? what hope of good?
PRINCE EDWARD:
to endure her loud alarums, why, man, there be good
Juliet, the county stays.
It is war's prize to take all vantages;
Desires access to you.
to keep my pack from fasting: they throng who
Let villany itself forswear't. I must
Their very heart of hope.
Hortensio will be quit with thee by changing.
The date is out of such prolixity:
A' shall not tread on me;
Though they would swear down each particular saint,
that we may yet again have access to our fair
This letter doth make good the friar's words,
No, sir, nor I mean it not.
First Servingman:
Here, my lord.
My best Camillo! We must disguise ourselves.
NATHANIEL:
The badges of his grief and patience,
Third Servingman:
KING EDWARD IV:
Could to no issue of true honour bring.
Yet if thy thoughts, Bianca, be so humble
All forsworn, all naught, all dissemblers.
GLOUCESTER:
And he shall signify from time to time
Any toys for your head,
NORTHUMBERLAND:
PETRUCHIO:
DUKE VINCENTIO:
No, madam, no; I may not leave it so:
To help Cominius.
Retire to win our purpose.
LADY GREY:
For hardy and undoubted champions;
Likely in time to bless a regal throne.
That from the seedness the bare fallow brings
Look, what I speak, my life shall prove it true;
What you profess.
To move the heavens to smile upon my state,
Have I enjoy'd the golden dew of sleep,
When you shall come to clearer knowledge, that
Stand fast;
death: do not satisfy your resolution with hopes
By any likelihood he show'd to-day?
POLIXENES:
GLOUCESTER:
Say you can swim; alas, 'tis but a while!
On the white wonder of dear Juliet's hand
As cause had call'd you up, have held him to
DUKE VINCENTIO:
of brown thread: I said a gown.
Why, what is pomp, rule, reign, but earth and dust?
O heavens! it cannot be.
A vengeance on your crafty wither'd hide!
And am to Padua come, as he that leaves
With rival-hating envy, set on you
For, hark you, Tybalt being slain so late,
Of these Plantagenets, Henry and Edward,
And in his wisdom hastes our marriage,
But in the other's silence do I see
'Tis none of mine.
It is too little, helping him to all;
Thou concludest like the sanctimonious pirate, that
KING RICHARD II:
O, cut my lace, lest my heart, cracking it,
Lascivious Edward, and thou perjured George,
And so, have at thee!
The pale-faced moon looks bloody on the earth
CORIOLANUS:
Therefore no no, for I resign to thee.
How could he stay till Warwick made return?
Here were the servants of your adversary,
With being nothing. Music do I hear?
Show duty, as mistaken all this while
Upon him as he pass'd: the nobles bended,
Here in Verona, ladies of esteem,
Now, mistress, profit you in what you read?
But passion lends them power, time means, to meet
And the rarest that e'er came there.
That rise thus nimbly by a true king's fall.
You know the very road into his kindness,
When thou didst crown his warlike brows with paper
Condemned villain, I do apprehend thee:
You will! why, happy man be's dole! My brother,
DUKE VINCENTIO:
PETRUCHIO:
O woe! O woful, woful, woful day!
That he was never trained up in arms.
KING RICHARD II:
That we may praise thee in the victory!
After our sentence plaining comes too late.
Marry, that with no man here he is offended;
For such a one as leaves a gentleman,
Well, let us to the king: there is that in this
But by the robbing of the banish'd duke.
Was that my father that went hence so fast?
You have of these pedlars, that have more in them
It is determined, not concluded yet:
You cavil, widow: I did mean, my queen.
The uglier seem the clouds that in it fly.
When what's not meet, but what must be, was law,
as it were, mean mischief and break a foul gap into
THOMAS MOWBRAY:
Haply some poison yet doth hang on them,
What, dress'd! and in your clothes! and down again!
Who thrives and who declines; side factions
Second Gentleman:
First Musician:
The Earl of Wiltshire is already there.
Biondello, what of that?
It will outrun you, father, in the end.
And, for my heart disdained that my tongue
Well, my dread lord; so must I call you now.
I give my daughter to him, and will make
Thy sorrow in my breast. Come, ladies, go,
LADY ANNE:
The gods begin to mock me. I, that now
First, hear me speak.
Of you, Lord Rivers, and, Lord Grey, of you;
Dismantle you, and, as you can, disliken
As now I reap at thy too cruel hand!
His son was but a ward two years ago.
What is become of Bushy? where is Green?
What talk you of debating? in few words,
The violation of my faith; and then
Nay, be thou sure I'll well requite thy kindness,
And then return lamenting to my love.
For now he lives in fame, though not in life.
Which they have given to beggars.
They do me wrong, and I will not endure it:
Who woo'd in haste and means to wed at leisure.
Is crimson in thy lips and in thy cheeks,
KING EDWARD IV:
When, after execution, judgment hath
And with her breath she did perfume the air:
DUCHESS OF YORK:
And if thine eyes can water for his death,
The worst is this, that, at so slender warning,
O, this it is that makes your lady mourn!
Some dungeon.
And mercy then will breathe within your lips,
And I'll salute your grace of York as mother,
Ye favourites of a king: are we not high?
But that our soft conditions and our hearts
is a gallant child; one that indeed physics the
Slandering a prince deserves it.
And reason coldly of your grievances,
With Lady Margery, your midwife there,
By this hand, sir, his wife is a more respected
Whom I unnaturally shall disinherit.
First Gentleman:
Would all the world but he had quite forsworn!
You have respected; stopp'd your ears against
Is not the king's name twenty thousand names?
If on the first, how heinous e'er it be,
Able to bear against the great Aufidius
A holy day shall this be kept hereafter:
To-day, as I came by, I called there;
Had he none else to make a stale but me?
Now, for my life, she's wandering to the Tower,
You are deceived, your brother Gloucester hates you.
It may be thought we held him carelessly,
Why, is not Oxford here another anchor?
Beshrew thee, cousin, which didst lead me forth
I doubt not but to ride as fast as York:
Our army is ready; come, we'll after them.
So that all hope is vain.
DUKE VINCENTIO:
sound'? What say you, Simon Catling?
She for an Edward weeps, and so do I;
Go hence in debt: and therefore, like a cipher,
ANTIGONUS:
In this point charge him home, that he affects
Not she: nor doth she tempt: but it is I
I here resign my government to thee,
Away with Oxford to Hames Castle straight:
Will you we show our title to the crown?
Untouch'd, or slightly handled, in discourse
The multitudinous tongue; let them not lick
O thou, the earthly author of my blood,
He had rather see the swords, and hear a drum, than
to hear it.
As heavens forefend!--your ruin; marry her,
KING RICHARD III:
Most goddess-like prank'd up: but that our feasts
AUTOLYCUS:
Dost thou love pictures? we will fetch thee straight
If I be waspish, best beware my sting.
And bear with mildness my misfortune's cross;
See, where he comes: so please you, step aside;
Our comfort in the country. We must find
And, touching hers, make blessed my rude hand.
A hundred marks, my Kate does put her down.
A graceful gentleman; against whose person,
We say that Shore's wife hath a pretty foot,
A strange one as ever I looked on: I cannot get him
Tranio, you jest: but have you both forsworn me?
I do not sue to stand;
How likes Gremio these quick-witted folks?
Which I protest against--I am assisted
pinched with the colic, you make faces like
PETRUCHIO:
Armies of pestilence; and they shall strike
I think there's never a man in Christendom
Our uncle York lord governor of England;
Uncertain way of gain! But I am in
It should the good ship so have swallow'd and
Thou and Oxford, with five thousand men,
To know the cause why music was ordain'd!
And so she shall; Lucentio shall make one,
Now in his life, against your holy oath?
Go, say I sent thee forth to purchase honour
the like occasion whereon my services are now on
What, neither?
Fetch me my rapier, boy. What dares the slave
My subjects for a pair of carved saints
I'll plead for you myself, but you shall have
For all the accommodations that thou bear'st
With all the admired beauties of Verona:
I had a Richard too, and thou didst kill him;
My figured goblets for a dish of wood,
BUCKINGHAM:
DUKE VINCENTIO:
KING RICHARD II:
Ah, what a shame were this! Look on the boy;
Why wither not the leaves the sap being gone?
At some time when his soaring insolence
This is a thing that Angelo knows not; for he this
When Tarquin made a head for Rome, he fought
I take my leave before I have begun,
But new struck nine.
DUCHESS OF YORK:
There lives or dies, true to King Richard's throne,
And Henry but usurps the diadem.
Nay, I have offer'd all, I have no more;
Another way I have to man my haggard,
Either be gone before the watch be set,
As it were sin to doubt--that love this painting
Dorset, embrace him; Hastings, love lord marquess.
James Tyrrel, and your most obedient subject.
I tell thee, man, 'tis better with me now
And am I last that knows it? O, thou think'st
A daughter, and a goodly babe,
He is my son; yea, and therein my shame;
HORTENSIO:
And say 'Tis true,' I'ld not believe them more
Put up your swords; you know not what you do.
By this discovery lost. Be not uncertain;
Tell them how Edward put to death a citizen,
And so he vanish'd: then came wandering by
Against the Duke of Hereford that appeals me
and kindly.
Ay, an it like your good worship.
This happy breed of men, this little world,
Where he should find you lions, finds you hares;
widow Dido!
To hear good counsel: O, what learning is!
O loyal father of a treacherous son!
Our swifter composition.
And lands restored again be freely granted:
GLOUCESTER:
I hope this reason stands for my excuse.
First Citizen:
Your will be done: this must my comfort be,
true descent;
GLOUCESTER:
A crutch, a crutch! why call you for a sword?
Galen is but empiricutic, and, to this preservative,
Nor ever will be ruled.
Came to my tent; and every one did threat
Where is my father, and my mother, nurse?
house of her! Come on.
Ay me! sad hours seem long.
Yet Edward at the least is Duke of York.
to your French slop. You gave us the counterfeit
He was too hard for him directly, to say the troth
Three parts of that receipt I had for Calais
GLOUCESTER:
Thou slewest my husband Henry in the Tower,
Come hither, cover'd with an antic face,
A most royal one; the centurions and their charges,
Wrench awe from fools and tie the wiser souls
Why hopest thou so? 'tis better hope he is;
And see another, as I see thee now,
Why, Clarence, to myself.
For thee to murder: for my daughters, Richard,
To save her life, I'll say she is not so.
Hist! Romeo, hist! O, for a falconer's voice,
One that speaks thus their voice?
Sir, I have been an unlawful bawd time out of mind;
Come, Montague; for thou art early up,
Because that I am little, like an ape,
First, to do greetings to thy royal person;
Doubly portcullis'd with my teeth and lips;
BUCKINGHAM:
I cannot stay to hear these articles.
being a tall fellow, trust me not. Hark! the kings
Dreaming on both; for all thy blessed youth
And why not queen?
Mark'd with a blot, damn'd in the book of heaven:
draw as soon as another man, if I see occasion in a
NORTHUMBERLAND:
Be plainer with me; let me know my trespass
This is the matter:--Nurse, give leave awhile,
Would tempt unto a close exploit of death?
GLOUCESTER:
Think'st thou that I will leave my kingly throne,
O, full of careful business are his looks!
Carry me to the gaol!
Whenever Buckingham doth turn his hate
Though first in question, is thy secondary.
Where you'll be loath to be: besides you know
PETRUCHIO:
But, my daughter,
Which a dismiss'd offence would after gall;
For God's sake, let us sit upon the ground
BUCKINGHAM:
With precepts that would make invincible
out; what she bade me say, I will keep to myself:
How should they, when that wise men have no eyes?
I do not think thou canst, for then thou wast not
And so farewell. Katharina, you may stay;
Nay, it is ten times strange.
Has deserved prison, then abound in tears
Would all were well! but that will never be
Sir Paris, I will make a desperate tender
GLOUCESTER:
counterfeitly; that is, sir, I will counterfeit the
A beggarly account of empty boxes,
Nay, mark how Lewis stamps, as he were nettled:
Shall be your love and labour's recompense.
POLIXENES:
Away, you three-inch fool! I am no beast.
No, to their lives bad friends were contrary.
Therefore, have done: some grief shows much of love;
What my tongue dares not, that my heart shall say.
We have power in ourselves to do it, but it is a
I'll give no blemish to her honour, none.
You mean, to bear me, not to bear with me:
Than so much loss of time.
To be a virtuous and well-govern'd youth:
In mine own cell, till thou didst seek to violate
In that dead time when Gloucester's death was plotted,
Were I but where 'tis spoken.
Less appear so in comforting your evils,
You will demand of me why I do this?
And bring in cloudy night immediately.
PRINCE EDWARD:
My lord, 'tis but begun.
I am a subject fit to jest withal,
PETRUCHIO:
Dost thou not bring me letters from the friar?
To Bolingbroke.
Second Senator:
I am a stranger here in Gloucestershire:
O calm, dishonourable, vile submission!
with them:'
Forewarn him that he use no scurrilous words in 's tunes.
KING RICHARD III:
DUKE VINCENTIO:
That every stride he makes upon my land
Thou desirest me to stop in my tale against the hair.
And, for this night, we'll fast for company:
Is more than one,
Tell me in sadness, who is that you love.
Who, hearing of our Marcius' banishment,
3 KING HENRY VI
Is to himself--I will not say how true--
So, weeping, smiling, greet I thee, my earth,
BIONDELLO:
Give me the glass, and therein will I read.
And, on my trust, a man that never yet
Good morrow, Richmond!
Preposterous ass, that never read so far
Giving no ground unto the house of York,
Some comfort, nurse.
But to command, to cheque, to o'erbear such
But most himself, if he could see his shame.
Yet extreme gusts will blow out fire and all:
Good night:
I do refer me to the oracle:
And come again to me; who, on my life,
Your dicipline in war, wisdom in peace,
Sir Stephen Scroop, besides a clergyman
Most dear'st! my collop! Can thy dam?--may't be?--
Ne'er through an arch so hurried the blown tide,
KING HENRY VI:
QUEEN ELIZABETH:
Prefix'd for's parting: yet, good deed, Leontes,
Was his great ancestor.
And weakling, Warwick takes his gift again;
that I found; it beggars any man that keeps it: it
Why, then thou art an executioner.
As thus, 'Come, little ones,' and then again,
Against their will. But who comes here?
For which the heavens, taking angry note,
more comfortable sort: if my son were my husband, I
He will hear none: he hath evermore had the liberty
HENRY BOLINGBROKE:
In them I trust; for they are soldiers,
After a well-graced actor leaves the stage,
PETRUCHIO:
Are suitors to you.
KING EDWARD IV:
are forgiven you, you're well to live. Gold! all gold!
Sea-nymphs hourly ring his knell
As may appear by Edward's good success,
O Pomfret, Pomfret! O thou bloody prison,
The fear of that withholds my present aid.
whereupon, after a little amazedness, we were all
Even all I have; yea, and myself and all,
LADY ANNE:
Besides, you know, it draws something near to the
Profaners of this neighbour-stained steel,--
Which is for me less easy to commit
There was it:
Of their breath only!
To be no better than a homely swain;
And, now I fall, thy tough commixture melts.
But the law will not allow it, Pompey; nor it shall
In supplication nod: and my young boy
In vain thou speak'st, poor boy; my father's blood
A deed of slander with thy fatal hand
Now, for this night, let's harbour here in York;
Why, noble lords,
Go, and be ruled: although I know thou hadst rather
Shall not regreet our fair dominions,
For they breathe truth that breathe their words in pain.
If judgement lie in them, then so do we,
Yet to draw forth your noble ancestry
Be so perfidious!--he whom next thyself
And pray that I may repossess the crown.
Why, that is nothing: for I tell you, father,
Infected as her life, she would not live
To-morrow are let blood at Pomfret-castle;
Immediately we do exile him hence:
GLOUCESTER:
make not this cheat bring out another and the
Who sent you hither? Wherefore do you come?
Resolve thee, Richard; claim the English crown.
Belike you mean to make a puppet of me.
I speak amazedly; and it becomes
To hear the lamentations of Poor Anne,
Give me thy torch, boy: hence, and stand aloof:
Thy nerves are in their infancy again
Yet, to have join'd with France in such alliance
To both their deaths thou shalt be accessary.
In music, instruments and poetry,
Nothing of him that doth fade
And all things shall be well, I warrant thee, wife:
To harder bosoms! Looking on the lines
When nature brought him to the door of death?
Seize on the shame-faced Henry, bear him hence;
I gave thee mine before thou didst request it:
And,--do you mark me, sir?
Here is the head of that ignoble traitor,
He'ld make an end of thy posterity.
Menenius ever, ever.
Wilt thou not, Jule?' it stinted and said 'Ay.'
Yes, in good sooth, the vice is of a great kindred;
So doth the cony struggle in the net.
QUEEN MARGARET:
that Clifford's manhood lies upon his tongue.
which may make you and him to rue at the other.
embraced, as it were, from the ends of opposed
Clarence, excuse me to the king my brother;
Could draw to part them, was stout Tybalt slain.
Ay, if thou wilt say 'ay' to my request;
DUCHESS OF YORK:
What said my man, when my betossed soul
The ship, sir, the slip; can you not conceive?
And were his daughter fairer than she is,
Will not have earth to know.
Well, well, he was the covert'st shelter'd traitor
Do climate here! You have a holy father,
Have the disease, and feel't not. How now, boy!
O,'tis Marcius!
KING RICHARD III:
Would seem in me to affect speech and discourse;
Than your consent gives strength to make it fly.
No profit grows where is no pleasure ta'en:
Where is the duke my father with his power?
wear his sting? In his tail.
Bearing a Tartar's painted bow of lath,
Vaughan, and all that have miscarried
Go to the feast, revel and domineer,
His answer was, he would unto the stews,
Save him from danger, do him love and honour,
Unworthy thee,--if ever henceforth thou
Even so. Heaven keep your honour!
your full time of imprisonment and your deliverance
But felt a fever of the mad and play'd
But to rejoice in splendor of mine own.
More worth than any man; men, that she is
That seem'd in eating him to hold him up,
Nay, come, Kate, come; you must not look so sour.
An if I live until I be a man,
To rid her from this second marriage,
Because you talk of pride now,--will you not be angry?
We shill employ thee in a worthier place.
Than the death-darting eye of cockatrice:
I say she shall: and first begin with her.
And Henry is my king, Warwick his subject.
KING RICHARD III:
Takes from Aufidius a great part of blame.
That in their chains fetter'd the kingly lion
Far than Deucalion off: mark thou my words:
There's no harm done.
Yet none of you would once plead for his life.
We met, we woo'd and made exchange of vow,
Or, by the affection that now guides me most,
The king of heaven forbid our lord the king
DUCHESS OF YORK:
You speak o' the people,
swallowed with yest and froth, as you'ld thrust a
Adding to clouds more clouds with his deep sighs;
He were as much more villain: you, my lord,
furred with fox and lamb-skins too, to signify, that
KING RICHARD III:
Must stead us all and me amongst the rest,
But do not like to stage me to their eyes:
To marry Paris: Wednesday is to-morrow:
Upon their woes whom fortune captivates!
And leave you naked.
Now shall he try his friends that flatter'd him.
Is she not down so late, or up so early?
Belonging to a man. O, be some other name!
Foes to my rest and my sweet sleep's disturbers
Ah, madam, 'tis too true: and that is worse,
me the king's brother-in-law.
Hover about me with your airy wings
That raught at mountains with outstretched arms,
Cannot a plain man live and think no harm,
A match, sir. There's in all two worthy voices
And let Bianca take her sister's room.
In God's name, I'll ascend the regal throne.
another laced, an old rusty sword ta'en out of the
For thou set'st on thy wife.
I was a pack-horse in his great affairs;
nothing but secrecy. Let my sheep go: come, good
Fear not, Baptista; we will content you, go to: but
I do; and bear the shame most patiently.
KING RICHARD III:
Go sleep, and hear us.
settled only in rogue: some call him Autolycus.
Until that act of parliament be repeal'd
The statue of her mother.
And that his bags shall prove.
Against my very heart. Poor souls, they perish'd.
But here she comes; and now, Petruchio, speak.
DUKE VINCENTIO:
At the hedge-corner, in the coldest fault?
And banish hence these abject lowly dreams.
Who here hath lain these two days buried.
Lord, let me never have a cause to sigh,
Very well: you being then, if you be remembered,
Find written in the margent of his eyes.
If it be possible for you to displace it with your
Convey me to my bed, then to my grave:
Never sound more! when drums and trumpets shall
By us, a pair of kings. Let's from this place.
That ever enter'd in a drowsy head,
thou thimble,
Like to a bowl upon a subtle ground,
And, for they cannot, die in their own pride.
GLOUCESTER:
Whom thou obeyed'st thirty and six years,
Which I'll not call a creature of thy place,
Intended or committed was this fault?
SEBASTIAN:
Welcome father.
Of us too much beloved. Let us be clear'd
Which to maintain I would allow him odds,
Verily, I speak it in the freedom of my knowledge:
One Ragozine, a most notorious pirate,
And craves to kiss your hand and take his leave.
Follow us to the court. Thou churl, for this time,
To turn their own points on their masters' bosoms:
Our old and faithful friend, we are glad to see you.
You would have slipt like him; but he, like you,
Yes, Warwick, I remember it to my grief;
He should have braved the east an hour ago
Hath clouded all thy happy days on earth:
So do not I: go, coward as thou art.
Sirrah Biondello, go and entreat my wife
Why, sir, you know no house nor no such maid,
Why, here's he that was wont to thwack our general,
day does night; it's spritely, waking, audible, and
Whether it be the fault and glimpse of newness,
O, then, I see, you will part but with light gifts;
But I will sort a pitchy day for thee;
FRIAR JOHN:
There is a prone and speechless dialect,
But come, my lord; and with a heavy heart,
Hooking both right and wrong to the appetite,
Better once than never, for never too late.
You scarcely have the hearts to tell me so,
And humbly beg the death upon my knee.
So vulgarly and personally accused,
That's by me wounded: both our remedies
Messenger:
And what of him?
LADY CAPULET:
CORIOLANUS:
What are they, I beseech your ladyship?
I promise you, but for your company,
At Ely House.
And awful rule and right supremacy;
Measureless liar, thou hast made my heart
First Citizen:
DUCHESS OF YORK:
Let's have some merry ones.
Against a bird, do I with Mowbray fight.
No sovereignty;--
And never seen thee, never borne thee son,
Which first was mine own king: and here you sty me
Thou cutt'st my head off with a golden axe,
Will I lend ear to. Ha! what shout is this?
Hadst thou groan'd for him
For Edward, for my brother, for his sake: Why, sirs,
receives not thy nose court-odor from me? reflect I
Is it not strange and strange?
Must have their voices; neither will they bate
If it were so that our request did tend
That 'banished,' that one word 'banished,'
And that his lady mourns at his disease:
Where, after I have solemnly interr'd
therefore it behoves men to be wary.
With eyes wide open; standing, speaking, moving,
Lest that thy wives with spits and boys with stones
Turn from their office to black funeral;
KING LEWIS XI:
And there an end. But what say you to Thursday?
Ere he attain his easeful western bed:
That is the best news: that the Earl of Richmond
As if they saw some wondrous monument,
And in this resolution here we leave you.--
PRINCE EDWARD:
If that be sin, I'll make it my morn prayer
Is't possible, friend Licio, that Mistress Bianca
What's he?
had inkling this fortnight what we intend to do,
Have done a drunken slaughter, and defaced
Hark, hark, my lord! what shouts are these?
I have from your Sicilian shores dismiss'd;
QUEEN ELIZABETH:
Before a true and lawful magistrate,
And that thou art so, there I throw my gage,
Please you to interpose, fair madam: kneel
O, now I would they had changed voices too!
to Angelo: if for this night he entreat you to his
PRINCE EDWARD:
Be you beneath the sky.
Is it concluded that he shall be protector?
Thou hast hit it: come, sit on me.
Better it were a brother died at once,
Yet most suspected, as the time and place
BALTHASAR:
'Tis best thou diest quickly.
On Lammas-eve at night shall she be fourteen;
Look'd pale when they did hear of Clarence' death?
Royal commanders, be in readiness:
The noble tribunes are the people's mouths,
Why, and I challenge nothing but my dukedom,
Look, if it please you, on this man condemn'd,
land-service, to see how the bear tore out his
Sirs, I will practise on this drunken man.
I'ld have you buy and sell so, so give alms,
Marry, sir, by my wife; who, if she had been a woman
paid you more, which will shame you to give him again.
Sail how thou canst, have wind and tide thy friend,
Farewell, my blood; which if to-day thou shed,
But sweeter than the lids of Juno's eyes
With twenty hundred thousand times more joy
Then, good my lord, take to your royal self
and will not--
Master, if ever I said loose-bodied gown, sew me in
AUTOLYCUS:
Be known when 'tis brought forth.
Come, leave your tears: a brief farewell: the beast
LADY ANNE:
Rest you merry!
Let me entreat, for I command no more,
Take thou this vial, being then in bed,
In the mean time, against thou shalt awake,
Being now awake, I'll queen it no inch farther,
And stops my tongue, while heart is drown'd in cares.
I would be so triumphant as I am?
Get me an iron crow, and bring it straight
HENRY BOLINGBROKE:
KING RICHARD III:
Of all encertainties himself commended,
In such a one as, you consenting to't,
Is near the hate of those love not the king.
That's not my fear; my meed hath got me fame:
KING EDWARD IV:
The game was ne'er so fair, and I am done.
That stir the king against the duke my brother.
Clapp'd to their gates: he is himself alone,
May enter 'twixt the gap of both and take
God join'd my heart and Romeo's, thou our hands;
Awakes me all the enrolled penalties
Which so roused up with boisterous untuned drums,
And, honest company, I thank you all,
Have I thought long to see this morning's face,
And she, too desperate, would not go with me,
Your Coriolanus
FRIAR LAURENCE:
Now, my lord, what shall we do, if we perceive
And hale him up and down, all swearing, if
Of the young prince, whose honourable thoughts,
Get you to bed; faith, You'll be sick to-morrow
That seest a game play'd home, the rich stake drawn,
Of Ragozine, more like to Claudio?
And so will I.
If thou more murmur'st, I will rend an oak
But, worthy lords, have you with heed perused
God save you, gentlemen!
Ran on the green-sward: nothing she does or seems
Soldiers, away with him!
ungenitured agent will unpeople the province with
That shall not be much amiss: Yet, as the matter
The mayor in courtesy show'd me the castle,
To set the crown once more on Henry's head:
If ancient sorrow be most reverend,
PETRUCHIO:
Is't a verdict?
By that fair sun which shows me where thou stand'st,
Good time of day unto your royal grace!
But 'twas thy heavenly face that set me on.
DUKE VINCENTIO:
Not proud, you have; but thankful, that you have:
DUCHESS OF YORK:
My hate to Marcius: where I find him, were it
The man I am.
There rest.
Is yet but unfelt thanks, which more enrich'd
peach-coloured satin, which now peaches him a
First Citizen:
For 'twas your heaven she should be advanced:
O, ten times more, than tigers of Hyrcania.
The language I have learn'd these forty years,
BUCKINGHAM:
Unshout the noise that banish'd Marcius,
This day my sister should the cloister enter
But, like a misbehaved and sullen wench,
How well my comfort is revived by this!
And pluck nights from me, but not lend a morrow;
O general,
Ay, sir; so his mother says, if I may believe her.
Peace shall go sleep with Turks and infidels,
Bear me to prison, where I am committed.
DUKE OF AUMERLE:
How doth the prince, and my young son of York?
Drest in a little brief authority,
the duke we talk of were returned again: the
First Servingman:
To help to take her from her borrow'd grave,
NORTHUMBERLAND:
Who told me, when we both lay in the field
Then, England's messenger, return in post,
With hard bright steel and hearts harder than steel.
O Clifford, how thy words revive my heart!
Would not have touch'd, would not have stain'd with blood:
Master Barnardine! you must rise and be hanged.
Treason! foul treason! Villain! traitor! slave!
A thousand hearts are great within my bosom:
The centre is not big enough to bear
'Zounds, he dies: I had forgot the reward.
When gallant-springing brave Plantagenet,
he is, and in the hottest day prognostication
That life is better life, past fearing death,
Where then, alas, may I complain myself?
Except the marshal and such officers
There is an art which in their piedness shares
To beg of thee, it is my more dishonour
'Tis torture, and not mercy: heaven is here,
And for your love to her lead apes in hell.
Too like the lightning, which doth cease to be
Since I have set my friends at peace on earth.
Threw dust and rubbish on King Richard's head.
I am so fraught with curious business that
What were I best to say? her father's brother
our pikes, ere we become rakes: for the gods know I
have strong arms too.
Though you are old enough to be my heir.
LADY ANNE:
Of mortals that fall back to gaze on him
Grace to boot!
faith. How does your little son?
Do you your office, or give up your place,
PETRUCHIO:
Where and what time your majesty shall please.
Ay, mine own fortune in my misery.
This louring tempest of your home-bred hate;
If you be one, as you are well express'd
Ay, sir; whom, I thank heaven, is an honest woman,--
To smooth his fault I should have been more mild:
In all her best array bear her to church:
We do instate and widow you withal,
The nobility are vex'd, whom we see have sided
And, for thou wast a spirit too delicate
Ere now denied the asker? and now again
DUKE VINCENTIO:
restrained to keep him from stumbling, hath been
LADY ANNE:
Both from thy table, Henry, and thy bed,
And yet not fall; so light is vanity.
And hugg'd me in his arm, and kindly kiss'd my cheek;
Till it was whetted on thy stone-hard heart,
KING EDWARD IV:
You, to remove that siege of grief from her,
Because they have been still mine enemies:
The manner of their taking may appear
the princess my sister called my father father; and
Hath pass'd in safety through the narrow seas,
Leave nothing out for length, and make us think
Were he as famous and as bold in war
In following this usurping Henry.
GLOUCESTER:
Though thanks to all, must I select
In troth, I think she would. Fare you well, then.
Out, you rogue! you pluck my foot awry:
Were he more angry at it.
Uncle, your grace knows how to bear with him.
Prithee now,
FRIAR PETER:
Oft have I heard his praises in pursuit,
We'll visit Caliban my slave, who never
Fast foe to the plebeii, your voices might
Makes me with heavy nothing faint and shrink.
A kinder value of the people than
LADY ANNE:
Not any yet:
And heavy-gaited toads lie in their way,
Supposing that they saw the king's ship wreck'd
That God, the law, my honour and her love,
Where the disease is violent. Lay hands upon him,
Too deep and dead, poor infants, in their grave.
O master, master, I have watch'd so long
For I do fear eyes over--to shipboard
LADY CAPULET:
DUKE VINCENTIO:
Relenting fool, and shallow, changing woman!
To the people, beg their stinking breaths.
Sir William Brandon, you shall bear my standard.
Look, here's a letter from him: the state hath
My lord, I hear the Marquis Dorset's fled
'Yea,' quoth he, 'dost thou fall upon thy face?
A most courteous exposition.
She was the fairest creature in the world;
Not to them all.
To raise a spirit in his mistress' circle
Of whence are you?
For terror, not to use, in time the rod
Give way there, and go on!
That bids me be of comfort any more.
Second Citizen:
And yet my letters-patents give me leave:
Come, follow. Speak not for him.
And when my face is fair, you shall perceive
HORTENSIO:
That now is lying in Marseilles' road.
Oh, who shall hinder me to wail and weep,
Divine his downfall? Say, where, when, and how,
'Go tell false Edward, thy supposed king,
Come hither, England's hope.
These were her words, utter'd with mad disdain:
A trespass that doth vex my grieved soul
Heaven doth with us as we with torches do,
Tush, man, abodements must not now affright us:
I hope, sir, your good worship will be my bail.
if something thou wilt swear to be believed,
QUEEN ELIZABETH:
Nay, it is ten times true; for truth is truth
Well, you have made a simple choice; you know not
Second Murderer:
What, in metre?
Else let my brother die,
KING RICHARD III:
But you, my noble lords, may name the time;
you shall go by him.
That I may pass this doing.
Because I am the store-house and the shop
Well then, I pray, your price o' the consulship?
In war was never lion raged more fierce,
Hoping you'll find good cause to whip them all.
'nointed over with honey, set on the head of a
But ere the crown he looks for live in peace,
For strokes received, and many blows repaid,
false of heart that way; and that he knew, I warrant
Let me speak:
Let him be call'd for.
You are most welcome home.
You break no privilege nor charter there.
Unmanner'd dog! stand thou, when I command:
QUEEN MARGARET:
The common muck of the world: he covets less
How fares our noble uncle, Lancaster?
Will issue out again and bid us battle:
LADY CAPULET:
Romeo slew Tybalt, Romeo must not live.
Who comes with him?
shall anon over-read it at your pleasure; where you
I'll to the friar, to know his remedy:
For thy conceit is soaking, will draw in
Not mad, but bound more than a mad-man is;
O Ratcliff, I fear, I fear,--
She hath been a suitor to me for her brother
If they set down before 's, for the remove
Why, is not this better now than groaning for love?
From too much liberty, my Lucio, liberty:
This letter he early bid me give his father,
The earth that's nature's mother is her tomb;
FRIAR LAURENCE:
CORIOLANUS:
I be not thine. To this I am most constant,
So two, together weeping, make one woe.
3 KING HENRY VI
Allot thee for his lovely bed-fellow!
Pursue him to his house, and pluck him thence:
Clarence, thy turn is next, and then the rest,
When you are gentle, you shall have one too,
So longest way shall have the longest moans.
If we will keep in favour with the king,
And tell me now, sweet friend, what happy gale
thee!' and by the operation of the second cup draws
That's as much as to say, such a case as yours
Now do you know the reason of this haste.
I have forgot my part, and I am out,
And, for more slander to thy dismal seat,
In choosing for yourself, you show'd your judgment,
AUTOLYCUS:
which laid their guilt upon my guiltless shoulders.
These violent delights have violent ends
He shall here find his friends with horse and men
To undeck the pompous body of a king;
like an impediment in the current, made it more
BUCKINGHAM:
Signior Hortensio, thus it stands with me:
Are they not now upon the western shore.
As well the fear of harm, as harm apparent,
And what loss is it to be rid of care?
Now, had I not the dash of my former life in me,
Have I since your departure had, my lords.
Thanks. What's the matter, you dissentious rogues,
And here's the heart that triumphs in their death
Not Gaunt's rebukes, nor England's private wrongs,
Sir, understand you this of me in sooth:
I show it most of all when I show justice;
Proclaims him king, and many fly to him:
GLOUCESTER:
That you, Cleomenes and Dion, have
The duke! Why, Warwick, when we parted,
Before thy sovereign and thy lawful king?
Your brother is to die.
That this same very day your enemies,
Whose fresh complexion and whose heart together
PETRUCHIO:
Beseech your highness, call the queen again.
Foul weather?
You sleep in peace, the tyrant being slain;
And here have I the daintiness of ear
Where is the life that late I led--
I now go toward him; therefore follow me
CORIOLANUS:
True, Clifford; and that's Richard Duke of York.
As I had rather hide me from my greatness,
Pardon me, Margaret; pardon me, sweet son:
Fourth Citizen:
on't: before Corioli he scotched him and notched
Brothers, you muse what chat we two have had.
With many heads butts me away. Nay, mother,
They would not take her life. Is not this true?
Who is as free from touch or soil with her
Thou art not conquer'd; beauty's ensign yet
CORIOLANUS:
Because, my lord, we would have had you heard
Suspicion always haunts the guilty mind;
So other foes may set upon our backs.
First Senator:
Nay, sit, nay, sit, good cousin Capulet;
protest unto thee--
let him have knowledge who I am.
And dares him to set forward to the fight.
Do so, and bid my sweet prepare to chide.
I come to visit the afflicted spirits
QUEEN MARGARET:
What makes this change?
To-morrow you set on.
O let no noble eye profane a tear
And I for comfort have but one false glass,
Bear hence this body and attend our will:
And he supposes me travell'd to Poland;
That covenants may be kept on either hand.
Or shall we play the wantons with our woes,
SEBASTIAN:
For yet is hope of life and victory.
So long that nineteen zodiacs have gone round
Dull thing, I say so; he, that Caliban
KING HENRY VI:
And many giddy people flock to him.
Unto his princely brother presently?
GLOUCESTER:
A cause more promising
And bring thy news so late?
Tybalt, here slain, whom Romeo's hand did slay;
Let's see for means: O mischief, thou art swift
CORIOLANUS:
No? you say your husband.
Her natural posture!
warrant for it: it hath not moved him at all.
When blows have made me stay, I fled from words.
We are not, sir, nor are we like to be;
Good prudence; smatter with your gossips, go.
He is as like thee as a man may be,
BUCKINGHAM:
The miserable have no other medicine
Those of your fact are so--so past all truth:
The emptier ever dancing in the air,
and children are even now to be afresh lamented.
Denounced against thee, are all fall'n upon thee;
Then Clarence is at hand, I hear his drum.
Good mother, be content; it is no more
Alack, and what shall good old York there see
I say, bid come before us Angelo.
BUCKINGHAM:
And spread they shall be, to thy foul disgrace
A noble cunning: you were used to load me
In the same time 'tis made? I will not.
Of all thy suitors, here I charge thee, tell
And, ten to one, you'll meet him in the Tower.
All murder'd: for within the hollow crown
And bring you from a wild Kate to a Kate
Of this day's journey, and from nine till twelve
grain enough!
art piled, for a French velvet. Do I speak
Sirrah, go you to Barthol'mew my page,
Is a strange brooch in this all-hating world.
And kiss your princely nephew, brothers both.
say, you cannot pass. Therefore, go back.
Takes on the point of honour to support
to sit, have you not?
A weeder-out of his proud adversaries,
First Servingman:
More than my dancing soul doth celebrate
The unlucky manage of this fatal brawl:
The nobles in great earnestness are going
O shut the door! and when thou hast done so,
LADY ANNE:
KING EDWARD IV:
What fellow's this?
Humbly complaining to her deity
Could not believe but that I was in hell,
Her children not her husband's!
The worm of conscience still begnaw thy soul!
Put up your swords.
Rain'd from the wounds of slaughter'd Englishmen:
For the most gentle Claudio.
A mad-cup ruffian and a swearing Jack,
For they do prank them in authority,
Makes fear'd and talk'd of more than seen--your son
CORIOLANUS:
